      FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS ACT 2022

                               (No. 18 of 2022)

                           ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                                            PART 1
                                      PRELIMINARY
Section
     1. Short title and commencement
     2. Interpretation

                                            PART 2
           GENERAL POWERS OVER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
     3. Power to issue directions to financial institutions
     4. Power to approve financial institutions and control their
            operations
     5. Fees

                                            PART 3
                                 PROHIBITION ORDER
               Division 1 — General provisions on prohibition order
     6. Interpretation of this Part
     7. Power of Authority to make prohibition orders
     8. Effect of prohibition orders
     9. Variation or revocation of prohibition orders
   10. Date and effect of prohibition orders
   11. Power of Authority to publish information
   12. Records of prohibition orders
          Division 2 — Appeals on prohibition orders and miscellaneous
   13. Appeals to Minister
   14. Appeal Advisory Committees

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
2        NO. 18 OF 2022

         PART 4

                POWERS REGARDING INTERNATIONAL
            OBLIGATIONS AND PREVENTION OF MONEY
         LAUNDERING AND TERRORISM FINANCING, AND
           ASSISTANCE TO FOREIGN AUTHORITIES AND
          DOMESTIC AUTHORITIES CONCERNING MONEY
            LAUNDERING, TERRORISM FINANCING AND

                               OTHER OFFENCES

         Division 1 — Power to issue directions or make regulations

Section  Directions or regulations to discharge Government’s
   15.   international obligations
         Requirements for prevention of money laundering and terrorism
   16.   financing

         Division 2 — Assistance to foreign authorities and domestic
         authorities for their supervisory functions and other actions

              in respect of money laundering, terrorism financing
                                  and other offences

         Subdivision (1) — General provisions

   17. Interpretation of this Division
   18. Purposes of this Division

         Subdivision (2) — Assistance to AML/CFT authorities

   19. Conditions for provision of assistance to AML/CFT authority
   20. Assistance that may be rendered to AML/CFT authority

         Subdivision (3) — Assistance to domestic authorities

   21. Conditions for provision of assistance to domestic authority
   22. Assistance that may be rendered to domestic authority

         Subdivision (4) — Additional provisions for
                     Subdivisions (2) and (3)

   23. Offences under this Division
   24. Immunities
   25. Authority may provide assistance

         Subdivision (5) — Inspection by AML/CFT authority

   26. Conditions for inspection by AML/CFT authority
   27. Duty of financial institution under inspection
   28. Confidentiality of inspection reports

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
         FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                                 3

         PART 4A

         INFORMATION SHARING SCHEME FOR
         PRESCRIBED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

         Division 1 — Preliminary

Section  Purpose of this Part
         Interpretation of this Part
   28A.  Prescribed financial institutions
   28B.
   28C.

         Division 2 — Disclosure of risk information

28D.     Request for risk information
28E.     Provision of risk information
28F.     Publication on electronic information sharing system
28G.     Threshold criteria and high-risk indicators
28H.     Power of Authority to issue written notice
28I.     Immunity and negation of secrecy obligations
28J.     False or misleading disclosures

         Division 3 — Access to and use of risk information disclosed

28K.     Use of disclosed risk information by prescribed financial
         institution
28L.     Use of disclosed risk information by Authority and STROs
28M.     Application of sections 21 and 22 of Personal Data Protection
         Act 2012

         Division 4 — Electronic information sharing system

28N. Establishment of electronic information sharing system

                                        PART 5
                   TECHNOLOGY RISK MANAGEMENT
29. Power of Authority in relation to technology risk management

                                        PART 6

                     DISPUTE RESOLUTION SCHEMES

30. Interpretation of this Part
31. Approval of dispute resolution schemes
32. Approval of chief executive officer and directors of dispute

         resolution scheme operator

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
4        NO. 18 OF 2022

Section  Removal of chief executive officer or director of dispute
   33.   resolution scheme operator
         Appeals to Minister
   34.   Approval of amendment to constitution of dispute resolution
   35.   scheme operator
         Requirement for financial institution to be member of approved
   36.   dispute resolution scheme
         Protection from personal liability
   37.   Regulations for this Part
   38.

                                           PART 7

                 CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

                            Division 1 — General provisions

   39. Application and interpretation of this Part
   40. Information of insolvency, etc.
   41. Action by Authority if relevant financial institution unable to

            meet obligations, etc.
   42. Effect of assumption of control under section 41
   43. Duration of control
   44. Responsibilities of officers, member, etc., of relevant financial

            institution
   45. Remuneration and expenses of Authority and others in certain

            cases
   46. Voluntary transfer of business of relevant financial institution
   47. Approval of transfer of business of relevant financial institution
   48. Disqualification or removal of director or executive officer of

            relevant financial institution
   49. Provisions as to compromise or arrangement relating to certain

            financial institutions, etc.
   50. Regulations for this Part

                   Division 2 — Recovery and resolution planning

   51. Notice concerning recovery and resolution plans
   52. Direction for recovery plan and its implementation
   53. Resolution planning
   54. Power to direct removal of impediments
   55. Appeal against direction to remove impediment
   56. Provisions concerning directions and notices under this Division
   57. Offences under this Division

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
         FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                                    5

         PART 8

         RESOLUTION OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

         Division 1 — General provisions

Section  Interpretation of this Part
   58.   Exercise of powers under Divisions 2, 4, 5 and 6 of this Part
   59.   Directions or regulations concerning persons that have ceased to
   60.   be specified financial institutions
         Directions and notices issued under this Act or other MAS
   61.   scheduled Act to continue to apply to persons who cease to be
         specified financial institutions
   62.   Moratorium
   63.   General provisions as to winding up
   64.   Power of Court to take action against directors and executive
         officers

         Division 2 — Compulsory transfer of business of
                     pertinent financial institution

65. Interpretation of this Division
66. Compulsory transfer of business
67. Certificate of transfer
68. Moratorium, avoidance of disposition of property, etc.

         Division 3 — Reverse transfer of business and
                    onward transfer of business

69. Interpretation of this Division
70. Reverse transfer of business
71. Reverse transfer certificate
72. Onward transfer of business
73. Onward transfer certificate

         Division 4 — Compulsory transfer of shares of pertinent
                               financial institution

74. Interpretation of this Division
75. Compulsory transfer of shares
76. Certificate of transfer

          Division 5 — Compulsory restructuring of
         share capital of pertinent financial institution

77. Interpretation of this Division
78. Compulsory restructuring of share capital

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
6  NO. 18 OF 2022

Section
   79. Certificate of restructuring of share capital

                               Division 6 — Bail-in powers

   80. Interpretation of this Division
   81. Exercise of powers under this Division
   82. Determination by Authority
   83. Approval by Minister of determination
   84. Bail-in certificate
   85. Effects of bail-in certificate
   86. Moratorium
   87. Significant shareholder by reason of bail-in certificate
   88. Directions for disposal
   89. Offence
   90. Restriction on eligible instruments

                             Division 7 — Termination rights

   91. Interpretation of this Division
   92. Effect of resolution measure on contracts where substantive

            obligations continue to be performed
   93. Right to temporarily suspend termination right for contracts

            because of resolution measure
   94. When suspension takes effect

                     Division 8 — Assistance to foreign resolution
                           authorities and domestic authorities

   95. Interpretation of this Division
   96. Conditions for provision of assistance to foreign resolution

            authority
   97. Other factors to consider for provision of assistance to foreign

            resolution authority
   98. Assistance that may be rendered to foreign resolution authority
   99. Assistance to domestic authority
  100. Offences under this Division
  101. Immunity for providing material, etc.

                   Division 9 — Recognition of foreign resolutions

  102. Interpretation of this Division
  103. Determination over foreign resolution
  104. Order to give effect to foreign resolution
  105. Directions
  106. Offence

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
         FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                                       7

         Division 10 — Resolution funding

Section  Interpretation of this Division
  107.   Establishment of resolution fund
  108.   Trustee of resolution fund
  109.   Withdrawal from resolution fund
  110.   Recovery of sums withdrawn
  111.   Claim from financial institution under resolution
  112.   Computation and notice of levy
  113.   Payment of levy by similar financial institutions, participants of
  114.   market infrastructure on lump sum basis, or participants of
         payment system operated by payment system operator
  115.   Payment of levy by participants of market infrastructure on
         transaction basis
  116.   Recovery, refund and remission of levies and late payment
         fees, etc.
  117.   Disclosure of information on levy
  118.   Use of resolution fund to pay loan, etc., and balance in resolution
         fund
  119.   Priority of debt of financial institution to trustee
  120.   Regulations for this Division

         Division 11 — Compensation

121. Interpretation of this Division
122. Meaning of “worse off as a result of the resolution”
123. Eligibility for compensation
124. Appointment of valuer
125. Valuation
126. Access to information by valuer
127. Confidentiality and use of information
128. Disclosure of valuation report
129. Appeals

         Division 12 — Miscellaneous

130. Notices to significant associated entities of specified financial
          institutions

131. Modification of law of insolvency
132. Power to obtain information under this Part
133. Immunity for officer of specified financial institution or

          significant associated entity
134. Cessation of moratorium, etc., under this Part

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
8  NO. 18 OF 2022

Section
  135. Regulations for this Part

                                            PART 9

                      DIGITAL TOKEN SERVICE PROVIDERS

                                 Division 1 — Preliminary

  136. Interpretation of this Part

             Division 2 — Licensing of digital token service providers

          Subdivision (1) — Licensing of digital token service providers

  137. Licensing of digital token service providers
  138. Application for licence
  139. Holding out as licensee
  140. Annual fees of licensees
  141. Lapsing, surrender, revocation or suspension of licence
  142. Appeals to Minister

                        Subdivision (2) — Conduct of business

  143. Place of business of licensee
  144. Obligation of licensee to notify Authority of certain events
  145. Obligation of licensee to provide information to Authority
  146. Obligation of licensee to submit periodic reports
  147. Prohibition from carrying on certain businesses

                Subdivision (3) — Control of controllers of licensees

  148. Application and interpretation of this Subdivision
  149. Control of shareholding in licensee
  150. Objection to existing control of licensee
  151. Power of Authority to issue directions for this Subdivision
  152. Power of Authority to obtain information relating to this

            Subdivision
  153. Offences, penalties and defences
  154. Appeals to Minister

                  Subdivision (4) — Control of officers of licensees

  155. Approval of chief executive officer, director, partner or manager
            of licensee

  156. Removal of chief executive officer, director, partner or manager
  157. Appeals to Minister

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
         FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                                9

         Subdivision (5) — Audit of licensees

Section  Auditing
  158.   Powers of auditor appointed by Authority
  159.   Restriction on auditor’s and employee’s right to communicate
  160.   certain matters
         Offence to destroy, conceal, alter, etc., records
  161.

         Division 3 — Offences

162. Falsification of records by officers, etc.
163. General penalty

         Division 4 — Miscellaneous

164. Power of court to make certain orders
165. Codes, guidelines, etc., by Authority
166. Power of Authority to issue written notice
167. Power of Authority to make regulations

                                         PART 10

                    INSPECTION POWERS OF AUTHORITY

168. Interpretation of this Part
169. Inspection by Authority
170. Obligation of relevant person under inspection, etc.
171. Confidentiality of inspection reports
172. Authority may transmit information from inspection to

          corresponding authority
173. Self-incrimination

                                        PART 10A
                                  INVESTIGATIONS
                               Division 1 — Preliminary
173A. Interpretation of this Part
                  Division 2 — Investigative powers of Authority
                              Subdivision (1) — General
173B. Investigation by Authority
173C. Confidentiality of investigation reports
173D. Self-incrimination and saving for advocates and solicitors

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
10       NO. 18 OF 2022

         Subdivision (2) — Examination of persons

Section  Requirement to appear for examination
         Proceedings at examination
  173E.  Requirements made of examinee
  173F.  Examination to take place in private
  173G.  Record of examination
  173H.  Giving copies of record to other persons
  173I.  Copies given subject to conditions
  173J.
  173K.

         Subdivision (3) — Powers to obtain information

173L. Power of Authority to order production of books, provision of
          information or giving of access to data

173M. Power to enter premises without warrant
173N. Warrant to seize books, etc.
173O. Powers where books are produced, etc.
173P. Powers where books not produced, information not provided or

          access to book or data not given
173Q. Copies of or extracts from books to be admitted in evidence
173R. Offences under this Division

         Division 3 — Transfer of evidence

173S.    Interpretation of this Division
173T.    Evidence obtained by Authority may be used in criminal
         investigations and proceedings
173U.    Evidence obtained under Criminal Procedure Code 2010 may be
         used for purposes of Act

                                         PART 11

                                       OFFENCES

174. Offences by corporations
175. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
176. General duty to use reasonable care not to provide false

          information to Authority
177. Composition of offences

                                         PART 12
                                  MISCELLANEOUS

178. Agents
179. Appointment of assistants

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
         FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                              11

Section  Consent of Public Prosecutor
  180.   Jurisdiction of Courts
  181.   Opportunity to be heard
  182.   Recovery of fees, expenses, etc.
  183.   Publication of certain information
  184.   Disclosure of information
  185.   Service of documents
  186.   Electronic service
  187.   Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria
  188.   Exemption
  189.   Amendment of Schedules
  190.   Power of Minister to make regulations for or in respect to
  191.   appeals
         Power of Authority to make regulations
  192.

                                         PART 13

                       CONSEQUENTIAL AND RELATED
                        AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS

193. Amendment of Banking Act 1970
194. Amendment of Companies Act 1967
195. Amendment of Corruption, Drug Trafficking and Other Serious

          Crimes (Confiscation of Benefits) Act 1992
196. Amendment of Credit Bureau Act 2016
197. Amendment of Criminal Procedure Code 2010
198. Amendment of Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners’

          Protection Schemes Act 2011
199. Amendment of Finance Companies Act 1967
200. Amendment of Financial Advisers Act 2001
201. Amendment of Financial Holding Companies Act 2013
202. Amendment of Income Tax Act 1947
203. Amendment of Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution

          Act 2018
204. Amendment of Insurance Act 1966
205. Amendment of Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970
206. Amendment of Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act 2000
207. Amendment of Payment Services Act 2019
208. Amendment of Precious Stones and Precious Metals (Prevention

          of Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing) Act 2019
209. Amendment of Securities and Futures Act 2001

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
12       NO. 18 OF 2022

Section  Amendment of Trust Companies Act 2005
         Amendment of United Nations Act 2001
  210.   Amendment of Variable Capital Companies Act 2018
  211.   Amendment of Securities and Futures (Amendment) Act 2017
  212.   Amendment of Financial Services and Markets Act 2022
  213.
  214.

                                         PART 14

                SAVINGS AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

215. Saving and transitional provisions in relation to amendments to
          Banking Act 1970

216. Saving and transitional provisions in relation to amendments to
          Finance Companies Act 1967

217. Saving and transitional provisions in relation to amendments to
          Financial Advisers Act 2001

218. Saving and transitional provisions in relation to amendments to
          Insurance Act 1966

219. Saving and transitional provisions in relation to amendments to
          Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970

220. Saving and transitional provisions in relation to amendments to
          Securities and Futures Act 2001

221. Saving and transitional provisions in relation to amendments to
          Trust Companies Act 2005

222. Other saving and transitional provisions
          First Schedule — Digital token services
          Second Schedule — Excluded persons
          Third Schedule — Disclosure of specified information

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS  13

An Act to provide for a financial sector-wide regulation of financial
  services and markets, the exercise of control over and the resolution
  of financial institutions and their related entities, the licensing and
  regulation of digital token service providers, and other incidental
  and connected matters, to make related and consequential
  amendments to certain other Acts, and to amend a provision of
  the Income Tax Act 1947 consequent upon the operation of the
  Financial Holding Companies Act 2013.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
14  NO. 18 OF 2022

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act is the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022 and
comes into operation on a date that the Minister appoints by
notification in the Gazette.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Authority” means the Monetary Authority of Singapore
         established by the Monetary Authority of Singapore
         Act 1970;

      “bank” means a bank licensed under the Banking Act 1970;

      “corporation” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
         Companies Act 1967;

      “financial institution” means —

              (a) any bank;

              (b) any merchant bank licensed under the Banking
                   Act 1970;

              (c) any finance company licensed under the Finance
                   Companies Act 1967;

              (d) any person that is approved as a financial institution
                   under section 4;

              (e) a person granted a licence under the Payment
                   Services Act 2019;

              (f) any insurer licensed or regulated under the Insurance
                   Act 1966;

              (g) any insurance intermediary registered or regulated
                   under the Insurance Act 1966;

              (h) any financial adviser licensed under the Financial
                   Advisers Act 2001;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            15

 (i) any approved holding company, approved exchange,
     recognised market operator, licensed trade
     repository, licensed foreign trade repository,
     approved clearing house, recognised clearing
     house, authorised benchmark administrator,
     authorised benchmark submitter, designated
     benchmark submitter or holder of a capital markets
     services licence under the Securities and Futures
     Act 2001;

 (j) any trustee for a collective investment scheme
     authorised under section 286 of the Securities and
     Futures Act 2001, that is approved under that Act;

(k) any trustee-manager of a business trust that is
     registered under the Business Trusts Act 2004;

 (l) any licensed trust company under the Trust
     Companies Act 2005;

(m) any designated financial holding company under the
     Financial Holding Companies Act 2013;

(n) any person licensed under the Banking Act 1970 to
     carry on the business of issuing credit cards or charge
     cards in Singapore;

(o) any operator of a designated payment system
     regulated under the Payment Services Act 2019;

(p) any person licensed under this Act to carry on the
     business of providing any type of digital token
     service; and

(q) any other person licensed, approved, authorised,
     designated, recognised, registered or otherwise
     regulated under this Act or any other MAS
     scheduled Act —

        (i) including any person who is exempted under
            this Act or any other MAS scheduled Act from
            being licensed, approved, authorised,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
16  NO. 18 OF 2022

                        designated, recognised, registered or regulated;
                        but

                   (ii) not including any collective investment scheme
                        that is authorised under section 286, or
                        recognised under section 287, of the
                        Securities and Futures Act 2001,

       but does not include (whether in respect of the whole, or any
       Part or provision, of this Act) such person or class of persons
       as the Authority may, by regulations made under section 192,
       prescribe;

    “Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria” means the Guidelines on
       Fit and Proper Criteria mentioned in section 188 which are
       for the time being in force;

    “MAS scheduled Act” means any Act set out in the Schedule to
       the Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970.

                                    PART 2

   GENERAL POWERS OVER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

Power to issue directions to financial institutions

 3.—(1) The Authority may, if the Authority thinks it necessary in
the public interest, request information from and make
recommendations to such financial institutions as the Authority
may, from time to time, determine and issue directions for the purpose
of securing that effect is given to any such request or
recommendation.

 (2) Before issuing any direction under subsection (1), the financial
institution or financial institutions concerned must, unless the
Authority in respect of any particular direction decides that it is not
practicable or desirable, be given an opportunity to make
representations with regard to the proposed direction within such
time as the Authority specifies.

 (3) Upon receipt of any representations mentioned in
subsection (2), the Authority must consider the representations and
may —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            17

       (a) reject the representations; or

       (b) amend or modify the proposed direction in accordance
            with the representations, or otherwise,

and in either event, the Authority must thereupon issue a direction in
writing to such financial institution or financial institutions (as the
case may be) requiring that effect be given to the proposed direction
or to the proposed direction as subsequently amended or modified by
the Authority within a reasonable time, and the financial institution or
financial institutions (as the case may be) must comply with that
direction.

 (4) A financial institution that fails or refuses to comply with a
direction issued under this section shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000.

 (5) It is not necessary to publish any direction issued under this
section in the Gazette.

Power to approve financial institutions and control their
operations

 4.—(1) The Authority may require any relevant financial institution
which operations are considered by the Authority to affect —

       (a) monetary stability and credit and exchange conditions in
            Singapore;

       (b) the development of Singapore as a financial centre; or

       (c) the financial situation of Singapore generally,

to be approved by the Authority for the purpose of carrying on
business in Singapore.

 (2) On an application in writing for approval under subsection (1),
the Authority may —

       (a) grant approval;

       (b) grant approval subject to such conditions as the Authority
            sees fit to impose; or

       (c) refuse to grant approval without any obligation to give
            reasons for its refusal.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
18  NO. 18 OF 2022

 (3) Without limiting section 3, the Authority may, if the Authority
thinks it necessary or expedient in the public interest, give directions
either of a general or special nature to any relevant financial
institution approved under subsection (2) in relation to —

       (a) the range of activities that the relevant financial institution
            may engage in or the range of services that the relevant
            financial institution may provide;

       (b) the terms and conditions under which the relevant financial
            institution may carry on a particular activity or provide a
            particular service; and

       (c) all matters in which it appears to the Authority that —

               (i) the activities that the relevant financial institution
                   engages in; or

              (ii) the services that the relevant financial institution
                   provides,

       (c) affect or are likely to affect —

             (iii) monetary or economic policy;

             (iv) credit conditions; or

              (v) the development of Singapore as a financial centre,

and the relevant financial institution must comply with the directions.

 (4) The Authority may, from time to time, issue guidelines to and
impose conditions of operation on any relevant financial institution as
the Authority thinks fit and may amend or revise those guidelines and
conditions.

 (5) The Authority may withdraw approval of a relevant financial
institution if it appears to the Authority that —

       (a) any information required to be provided in connection with
            an application for approval was false or misleading in a
            material particular;

       (b) the relevant financial institution has failed to comply with
            any direction or guideline issued or condition attached to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            19

            an approval or conditions of operation imposed under this
            section;

       (c) the relevant financial institution has conducted its affairs
            so as to threaten the interests of its depositors or customers;
            or

       (d) it is in the public interest to do so.

 (6) Any relevant financial institution that is aggrieved by a decision
of the Authority to withdraw approval may appeal against the
decision to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (7) A relevant financial institution, required under subsection (1) to
obtain the Authority’s approval, that carries on its business without
first obtaining that approval shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 and, in the case
of a continuing offence, to a further fine of $3,000 for every day or
part of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (8) A relevant financial institution that fails to comply with any
direction given under subsection (3) or any condition subject to which
an approval is granted under subsection (2)(b) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$20,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine of
$2,000 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

 (9) It is not necessary to publish any direction given under this
section in the Gazette.

 (10) In this section, “relevant financial institution” means any
financial institution or class of financial institutions other than —

       (a) a financial institution or class of financial institutions
            licensed, approved, authorised, designated, recognised,
            registered or otherwise regulated by the Authority under
            this Act or any other MAS scheduled Act; or

       (b) a financial institution or class of financial institutions
            exempted from being licensed, approved, authorised,
            designated, recognised, registered or regulated by the
            Authority under this Act or any other MAS scheduled Act.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
20  NO. 18 OF 2022

Fees

 5.—(1) Every financial institution approved by the Authority under
section 4 may be required to pay such fees in respect of anything done
under or by virtue of that section as the Authority may by notification
in the Gazette prescribe.

 (2) The Authority may prescribe different fees in respect of
different classes of financial institutions and such fees are to apply
uniformly to such classes.

 (3) The manner of payment is as specified by the Authority.

                                    PART 3

                          PROHIBITION ORDER

        Division 1 — General provisions on prohibition order

Interpretation of this Part

 6. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “appointee”, in relation to a financial institution, or any other
         person who carries on a business or an activity, provides a
         relevant service or performs a relevant function —

              (a) means a person, by whatever name called, in the
                   employment of, or acting for, or by arrangement with,
                   the financial institution or other person, who carries
                   on, provides or performs for or on behalf of the
                   financial institution or other person, any activity,
                   business, service or relevant function, whether or not
                   the person is remunerated, and whether the person’s
                   remuneration, if any, is by way of salary, wages,
                   commission or otherwise; and

              (b) includes any officer of the financial institution or
                   other person who carries on, provides or performs for
                   or on behalf of the financial institution or other
                   person, any activity, business, service or relevant
                   function, whether or not the officer is remunerated,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            21

             and whether the officer’s remuneration, if any, is by
             way of salary, wages, commission or otherwise,

   but does not include a representative;

“company” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“critical system”, in relation to a financial institution, means a
   system, the failure of which will —

        (a) cause significant disruption to the operations of the
             financial institution; or

        (b) materially and adversely impact any service that the
             financial institution is providing to its customers;

“critical system administration” refers to the maintenance or
   operation of a critical system of a financial institution by
   persons granted access to the system;

“digital payment token” has the meaning given by section 2(1)
   of the Payment Services Act 2019;

“digital payment token instrument” has the meaning given by
   section 2(1) of the Payment Services Act 2019;

                                                                       [Act 18 of 2022 wef 30/06/2025]

“director” includes —

        (a) any person occupying the position of director of a
             corporation by whatever name called;

        (b) a person in accordance with whose directions or
             instructions the directors of a corporation are
             accustomed to act; and

        (c) an alternate or substitute director;

“handling of funds or assets” means any of the following:

        (a) the safeguarding or administration of funds or assets
             belonging to a customer of a financial institution;

        (b) the safeguarding or administration of funds or assets
             belonging to a financial institution;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
22  NO. 18 OF 2022

            (c) the safeguarding of a digital payment token
                 belonging to —

                   (i) a customer of a financial institution; or

                   (ii) a financial institution, where the financial
                        institution has control over the digital
                        payment token;

            (d) the carrying out of an instruction relating to a digital
                 payment token for —

                   (i) a customer of a financial institution; or

                   (ii) a financial institution’s own account, where the
                        financial institution has control over the digital
                        payment token;

            (e) the safeguarding of a digital payment token
                 instrument belonging to —

                   (i) a customer of a financial institution; or

                   (ii) a financial institution, where the financial
                        institution has control over one or more
                        digital payment tokens associated with the
                        digital payment token instrument;

            (f) the carrying out of an instruction relating to one or
                 more digital payment tokens associated with a digital
                 payment token instrument for —

                   (i) a customer of a financial institution; or

                   (ii) a financial institution’s own account, where the
                        financial institution has control over the digital
                        payment token instrument;

    “officer”, in relation to a corporation, includes —

            (a) a director, a secretary or an employee of the
                 corporation;

            (b) a receiver or manager of any part of the undertaking
                 of the corporation appointed under a power contained
                 in any instrument; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            23

        (c) the liquidator of the corporation appointed in a
             voluntary winding up;

“relevant function” means any one or more of the following
   functions in a financial institution, in relation to an activity, a
   business or a service, the conduct of which is regulated or
   authorised by the Authority:

        (a) handling of funds or assets;

        (b) risk taking;

        (c) risk management and control;

        (d) critical system administration;

        (e) any other function critical to the integrity or
             functioning of financial institutions which the
             Authority may prescribe for the purpose of
             protecting trust or deterring misconduct in the
             financial industry;

“relevant service”, in relation to a financial institution —

        (a) means any service which the financial institution
             obtains or receives from another person; but

        (b) does not include —

               (i) a service provided in the course of employment
                    by an employee of the financial institution; or

               (ii) a service provided by a director, a
                    representative or an officer of that financial
                    institution in the course of the director’s,
                    representative’s or officer’s appointment;

“representative” —

        (a) in relation to a financial adviser licensed under the
             Financial Advisers Act 2001, has the meaning given
             by section 2(1) of that Act; and

        (b) in relation to an authorised benchmark administrator,
             exempt benchmark administrator, authorised
             benchmark submitter, exempt benchmark submitter,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
24  NO. 18 OF 2022

                 designated benchmark submitter, or a person who
                 carries on business in any regulated activity, under
                 the Securities and Futures Act 2001, has the meaning
                 given by section 2(1) of that Act;

    “risk management and control” means any of the following:

            (a) the identification, assessment, monitoring and
                 reporting of specified risks arising from a financial
                 institution’s operations;

            (b) the development and implementation of policies and
                 procedures intended to ensure compliance by a
                 financial institution with the relevant legal and
                 regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions that the
                 financial institution conducts business in;

            (c) the monitoring of, auditing of or reporting on
                 compliance with policies and procedures intended
                 to ensure compliance by a financial institution with
                 the relevant legal and regulatory requirements in the
                 jurisdictions that the financial institution conducts
                 business in;

    “risk taking” means the taking of actions that result in a financial
       institution undertaking any specified risk in the course of the
       business of the financial institution;

    “share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the Companies
       Act 1967;

    “specified risk” means credit risk, asset risk, liquidity risk,
       market risk, operational risk, technology risk, market conduct
       risk, money laundering risk, terrorism financing risk, legal
       risk, reputational risk, regulatory risk, or any other risks as
       may be prescribed by the Authority;

    “system” means any hardware, software, network or other
       information technology component which is part of an
       information technology infrastructure;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            25

      “treasury share” —

              (a) in relation to a company, has the meaning given by
                   section 4(1) of the Companies Act 1967; and

              (b) in relation to a corporation (other than a company),
                   means any share equivalent to a treasury share in a
                   company;

      “voting share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
         Companies Act 1967.

Power of Authority to make prohibition orders

 7.—(1) The Authority may, by written notice, make a prohibition
order against any person, if the Authority is satisfied that the person is
not a fit and proper person in accordance with the Guidelines on Fit
and Proper Criteria to carry out any one or more of the acts mentioned
in subsection (2)(a), (b), (c), (d) or (e).

 (2) A prohibition order made under subsection (1) may prohibit the
person, whether permanently or for a specified period, from any one
or more of the following:

       (a) carrying on any activity or business, or providing any
            service, the carrying on or provision (as the case may be) of
            which is regulated or authorised by the Authority;

       (b) performing any relevant function;

       (c) taking part, directly or indirectly, in the management of, or
            acting as a director, partner or manager of, any financial
            institution;

       (d) becoming a substantial shareholder of any financial
            institution that is a corporation;

       (e) where the person is a substantial shareholder of a financial
            institution that is a corporation, acquiring any interest in
            any voting share in the financial institution other than a
            voting share in which the person already has an interest.

 (3) A prohibition order made under subsection (1) may allow the
person, subject to any condition specified in the order —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
26  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (a) to do a specified act; or

       (b) to do a specified act in specified circumstances,

that the order would otherwise prohibit the person from doing.

 (4) The Authority must not make a prohibition order against a
person without giving the person an opportunity to be heard.

 (5) Any person who is aggrieved by the decision of the Authority to
make a prohibition order against the person may, within 30 days after
the decision, appeal in writing to the Minister.

 (6) Where the Authority makes a prohibition order against any
person who is an appointed, provisional or temporary representative
under the Securities and Futures Act 2001 or an appointed or
provisional representative under the Financial Advisers Act 2001, it
must indicate against the person’s name in the public register of
representatives under the Securities and Futures Act 2001 or the
Financial Advisers Act 2001 (as the case may be) that fact, and the
indication must remain in the register for the duration that the
prohibition order is in force.

 (7) For the purposes of this section, a person is a substantial
shareholder of a financial institution that is a corporation if —

       (a) the person has an interest or interests in one or more voting
            shares (excluding treasury shares) in the financial
            institution; and

       (b) the total votes attached to that share, or those shares, is not
            less than 5% of the total votes attached to all the voting
            shares (excluding treasury shares) in the financial
            institution.

 (8) For the purposes of this section, a person is a substantial
shareholder of a financial institution that is a corporation the share
capital of which is divided into 2 or more classes of shares, if —

       (a) the person has an interest or interests in one or more voting
            shares (excluding treasury shares) in one of those classes;
            and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            27

       (b) the total votes attached to that share, or those shares, is not
            less than 5% of the total votes attached to all the voting
            shares (excluding treasury shares) in that class.

 (9) In this section, “partner” and “manager”, in relation to a
financial institution that is a limited liability partnership, have the
meanings given by section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
Act 2005.

 (10) Section 4 of the Securities and Futures Act 2001, with the
necessary modifications, applies for the purpose of determining
whether a person has an interest in a voting share as if a reference to
securities, securities‑based derivatives contracts or units in a
collective investment scheme is a reference to voting shares.

Effect of prohibition orders

 8.—(1) A person against whom a prohibition order is made must
comply with the prohibition order.

 (2) Where a prohibition order is made against a person (A), a
financial institution must not employ or enter into any arrangement
with A, or use A’s service, whether directly or indirectly —

       (a) to carry on any activity or business, or provide any service,
            the carrying on or provision (as the case may be) of which
            is regulated or authorised by the Authority; or

       (b) to perform any relevant function,

to the extent that the activity, business, service or relevant function is
prohibited by the order.

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$150,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

 (4) A financial institution that contravenes subsection (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $100,000.

 (5) Where a financial institution is charged with an offence for
contravening subsection (2) for indirectly employing or entering into

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
28  NO. 18 OF 2022

an arrangement with A or indirectly using A’s service, to carry on any
activity or business, or provide any service, the carrying on or
provision of which is regulated or authorised by the Authority, or to
perform any relevant function, that is prohibited by a prohibition
order made against A, it is a defence for the financial institution to
prove —

       (a) that the financial institution took all reasonable steps to
            ensure compliance with subsection (2); and

       (b) after doing so, believed on reasonable grounds, that it is not
            and will not be indirectly employing or entering into an
            arrangement with, or indirectly using the services of, any
            person to carry on any activity or business, provide any
            service, or perform the relevant function, where the person
            is prohibited by a prohibition order made against the
            person from carrying on the activity or business, providing
            the service, or performing the relevant function.

 (6) Any person against whom a prohibition order has been issued
prohibiting the person from —

       (a) carrying on any activity or business, or providing any
            service the carrying on, or provision (as the case may be) of
            which is regulated or authorised by the Authority; or

       (b) performing any relevant function,

must (by written notice) immediately inform all its representatives or
appointees who, for or on behalf of the person, carry on the activity or
business, provide the service or perform the relevant function, of the
prohibition order and the period for which the prohibition order is to
be in force.

 (7) Any representative or appointee to whom notice of the
prohibition order is given under subsection (6) must cease to carry
on any activity or business, provide any service or perform any
relevant function, for or on behalf of the person against whom the
prohibition order was issued to the same extent that that person is
prohibited from carrying on that activity or business, providing that
service, or performing that relevant function under the prohibition
order.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            29

 (8) A person who contravenes subsection (6) or (7) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$150,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $15,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (9) A prohibition order does not operate so as to —

       (a) avoid or affect any agreement, transaction or arrangement
            entered into by the person against whom the order is made,
            whether the agreement, transaction or arrangement was
            entered into before, on or after the issue of the prohibition
            order; or

       (b) affect any right, obligation or liability arising under any
            such agreement, transaction or arrangement.

Variation or revocation of prohibition orders

 9.—(1) The Authority may vary or revoke a prohibition order, by
giving written notice to the person against whom the order was made,
if the Authority is satisfied that it is appropriate to do so because of a
change in any of the circumstances based on which the Authority
made the order.

 (2) The Authority may vary or revoke a prohibition order under
subsection (1) —

       (a) on the Authority’s own initiative; or

       (b) if the person against whom the order was made lodges with
            the Authority an application for the Authority to do so,
            accompanied by such documents as may be required by the
            Authority.

 (3) An application mentioned in subsection (2)(b) must be
accompanied by the prescribed fee, if any.

 (4) The Authority must not vary a prohibition order made against a
person under subsection (2)(a) without giving the person an
opportunity to be heard.

 (5) A person who is aggrieved by the decision of the Authority to
vary a prohibition order made against the person under

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
30  NO. 18 OF 2022

subsection (2)(a) may, within 30 days after the decision, appeal in
writing to the Minister.

Date and effect of prohibition orders

 10. A prohibition order, or any variation or revocation of a
prohibition order, takes effect on the date specified by the
Authority in the order or the notice in section 9(1), as the case may be.

Power of Authority to publish information

 11. The Authority —

       (a) must publish the making of a prohibition order under
            section 7, and the variation or revocation of a prohibition
            order under section 9, in such manner as the Authority
            thinks will secure adequate publicity for the fact that the
            prohibition order was made, varied or revoked, as the case
            may be; and

       (b) may from time to time and in such form or manner as the
            Authority thinks fit, publish such other information
            relating to —

               (i) the making of a prohibition order under section 7, or
                   the variation or revocation of a prohibition order
                   under section 9; or

              (ii) the person in respect of whom a prohibition order
                   was made under section 7, or varied or revoked under
                   section 9,

as the Authority may consider necessary or expedient to publish in the
interest of the public or a section of the public or for the protection of
investors.

Records of prohibition orders

 12.—(1) The Authority must keep, in such form as the Authority
thinks fit, records on persons —

       (a) against whom prohibition orders are made under section 7;
            and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            31

       (b) whose or which prohibition orders are varied or revoked
            under section 9.

 (2) The Authority may publish the records mentioned in
subsection (1), or any part of the records, in such manner as the
Authority considers appropriate.

 (3) Any person may, upon payment of such fee as may be
prescribed, inspect the records kept or published by the Authority
under subsection (1) or (2), or require a copy of or extract from, such
records to be given or certified by the Authority.

 (4) A copy of or an extract from any record mentioned in
subsection (3) that is certified by the Authority to be a true copy or
extract is admissible as prima facie evidence of the matter stated
therein in any legal proceedings.

  Division 2 — Appeals on prohibition orders and miscellaneous

Appeals to Minister

 13.—(1) Where an appeal is made to the Minister under this Part,
the Minister may confirm, vary or reverse the decision of the
Authority on appeal, or give such directions in the matter as the
Minister thinks fit, and the decision of the Minister is final.

 (2) Where an appeal is made to the Minister under this Part, the
Minister must, within 28 days after the receipt of the appeal,
constitute an Appeal Advisory Committee comprising not less than
3 members of the Appeal Advisory Panel and refer that appeal to the
Appeal Advisory Committee.

 (3) The Appeal Advisory Committee is to submit to the Minister a
written report on the appeal referred to the Committee under
subsection (2), and may make such recommendations as the
Committee thinks fit.

 (4) The Minister must consider the report submitted under
subsection (3) in making his or her decision under this section but
he or she is not bound by the recommendations in the report.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
32  NO. 18 OF 2022

Appeal Advisory Committees

 14.—(1) For the purpose of enabling Appeal Advisory Committees
to be constituted under section 13, the Minister is to appoint a panel
(called in this Part the Appeal Advisory Panel) comprising such
members from the financial services industry, and the public and
private sectors, as the Minister may appoint.

 (2) A member of the Appeal Advisory Panel is to be appointed for a
term of not more than 2 years and is eligible for re-appointment.

 (3) An Appeal Advisory Committee has the power, in the exercise
of its functions, to inquire into any matter or thing relating to the
financial services industry and may, for this purpose, summon any
person to give evidence on oath or affirmation or produce any
document or material necessary for the purpose of the inquiry.

 (4) Nothing in subsection (3) compels the production by an
advocate and solicitor, or a legal counsel referred to in
section 128A of the Evidence Act 1893, of a document or material
containing a privileged communication made by or to him or her in
that capacity or authorise the taking of possession of any such
document or material which is in his or her possession.

 (5) An advocate and solicitor, or a legal counsel referred to in
section 128A of the Evidence Act 1893, who refuses to produce any
document or other material referred to in subsection (4) is
nevertheless obliged to give the name and address (if he or she
knows them) of the person to whom, or by or on behalf of whom, the
privileged communication was made.

 (6) For the purposes of this Part, every member of an Appeal
Advisory Committee —

       (a) is taken to be a public servant for the purposes of the Penal
            Code 1871; and

       (b) in case of any suit or legal proceedings brought against him
            or her for any act done or omitted to be done in the
            execution of his or her duty under the provisions of this
            Part, has the like protection and privileges as are by law
            given to a Judge in the execution of his or her office.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            33

 (7) A person who contravenes subsection (5) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000.

 (8) Every Appeal Advisory Committee must have regard to the
interest of the public, the protection of investors and the safeguarding
of sources of information.

 (9) Subject to the provisions of this Part, an Appeal Advisory
Committee may regulate its own procedure and is not bound by the
rules of evidence.

                                    PART 4

             POWERS REGARDING INTERNATIONAL
         OBLIGATIONS AND PREVENTION OF MONEY
     LAUNDERING AND TERRORISM FINANCING, AND
        ASSISTANCE TO FOREIGN AUTHORITIES AND
       DOMESTIC AUTHORITIES CONCERNING MONEY
         LAUNDERING, TERRORISM FINANCING AND

                            OTHER OFFENCES

    Division 1 — Power to issue directions or make regulations

Directions or regulations to discharge Government’s
international obligations

 15.—(1) The Authority may, from time to time —

       (a) issue such directions to a financial institution or class of
            financial institutions; and

       (b) make such regulations under section 192 concerning any
            financial institution or class of financial institutions or
            relating to the activities of any financial institution or class
            of financial institutions,

as the Authority considers necessary in order to discharge or facilitate
the discharge of any obligation binding on Singapore by virtue of a
decision of the Security Council of the United Nations.

 (2) A financial institution to which a direction is issued under
subsection (1)(a) or which is bound by any regulations mentioned in

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
34  NO. 18 OF 2022

subsection (1)(b) must comply with the direction or regulations
despite any other duty imposed on the financial institution by any rule
of law, written law or contract.

 (3) A financial institution in carrying out any act in compliance
with any direction or regulations mentioned in subsection (1), is not
to be treated as being in breach of any such rule of law, written law or
contract.

 (4) A financial institution must not disclose any direction issued
under subsection (1)(a) if the Authority notifies the financial
institution that the Authority is of the opinion that the disclosure of
the direction is against the public interest.

 (5) A financial institution that —

       (a) fails or refuses to comply with a direction issued to the
            financial institution under subsection (1);

       (b) contravenes any regulations mentioned in subsection (1);
            or

       (c) discloses a direction issued to the financial institution in
            contravention of subsection (4),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $1 million.

 (6) It is not necessary to publish any direction issued under this
section in the Gazette.

Requirements for prevention of money laundering and
terrorism financing

 16.—(1) The Authority may, from time to time, issue such
directions, or make such regulations under section 192, concerning
any financial institution or class of financial institutions as the
Authority considers necessary for the prevention of money
laundering or the financing of terrorism.

 (2) In particular, the directions and regulations mentioned in
subsection (1) may provide for —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            35

       (a) customer due diligence measures to be conducted by
            financial institutions to prevent money laundering and the
            financing of terrorism; and

       (b) the records to be kept for that purpose.

 (3) A financial institution must —

       (a) conduct such customer due diligence measures as may be
            specified by the directions referred to in subsection (2) that
            are issued to the financial institution, or as may be
            prescribed by the regulations mentioned in that
            subsection that are applicable to the financial institution;
            and

       (b) maintain records on transactions and information obtained
            through the conduct of those measures for such period and
            in such manner as may be specified by the directions
            referred to in subsection (2) that are issued to the financial
            institution, or as may be prescribed by the regulations
            mentioned in that subsection that are applicable to the
            financial institution.

 (4) A financial institution that —

       (a) fails to comply with a direction issued to the financial
            institution under subsection (1);

       (b) contravenes any regulations mentioned in subsection (1);
            or

       (c) contravenes subsection (3),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $1 million and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine of $100,000 for every day or part of a day during which
the offence continues after conviction.

 (5) It is not necessary to publish any direction issued under this
section in the Gazette.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
36                 NO. 18 OF 2022

    Division 2 — Assistance to foreign authorities and domestic
    authorities for their supervisory functions and other actions

         in respect of money laundering, terrorism financing
                             and other offences

    Subdivision (1) — General provisions

Interpretation of this Division

17.—(1) In this Division, unless the context otherwise requires —

    “agent” means an insurance agent in respect of policies which
       relate to general business within the meaning of
       section 3(1)(b) of the Insurance Act 1966;

    “AML/CFT authority” or Anti-Money Laundering/Countering
       the Financing of Terrorism authority means a public authority
       of a foreign country which is responsible for the supervision
       of foreign financial institutions in that foreign country;

    “AML/CFT       requirement”    or     Anti-Money

    Laundering/Countering the Financing of Terrorism

    requirement —

    (a) in relation to a foreign country, means a law or
         regulatory requirement of that foreign country for the
         detection or prevention of money laundering or the
         financing of terrorism; or

    (b) in relation to Singapore, means a written law, or a
         regulatory requirement imposed under a written law,
         for the detection or prevention of money laundering
         or the financing of terrorism;

    “applicable offence” means a drug dealing offence or a serious
       offence as defined in the Corruption, Drug Trafficking and
       Other Serious Crimes (Confiscation of Benefits) Act 1992;

    “book” includes any record, register, document or other record
       of information and any account or accounting record,
       however compiled, recorded or stored, and whether in
       written or printed form or on microfilm or any electronic
       form or otherwise;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            37

“chief executive”, in relation to a financial institution, means
   any person, by whatever name called, who —

        (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
             arrangement with, the financial institution; and

        (b) is principally responsible for the management and
             conduct of the business of the financial institution;

“corresponding authority” means a public authority of a foreign
   country which exercises a function that corresponds to a
   regulatory function of the Authority under any prescribed
   written law;

“director”, in relation to a financial institution, includes —

        (a) any person, by whatever name called, occupying the
             position of a director of the financial institution;

        (b) a person in accordance with whose directions or
             instructions the directors of the financial institution
             are accustomed to act; and

        (c) an alternate director, or a substitute director, of the
             financial institution;

“domestic authority” means a Law Officer, a ministry or
   department of the Government, or a statutory body (other
   than the Authority) established by or under a public Act for a
   public purpose;

“employee” includes an individual seconded or temporarily
   transferred from another employer;

“enforcement action” means any civil or criminal action taken
   by a domestic authority against a person for an applicable
   offence, including the restraining of dealing with, or the
   seizure or confiscation of, any property in connection with an
   applicable offence, and the offer of composition of the
   offence;

“executive officer”, in relation to a financial institution, means
   any person, by whatever name called, who —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
38  NO. 18 OF 2022

            (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
                 arrangement with, the financial institution; and

            (b) is concerned with or takes part in the management of
                 the financial institution on a day-to-day basis;

    “foreign country” means any country or territory other than
       Singapore;

    “foreign financial institution” means an institution that is
       licensed, approved, registered or otherwise regulated under
       any law administered by a corresponding authority in a
       foreign country to carry on any financial activities in that
       country, or that is exempted from such licensing, approval,
       registration or regulation for the carrying on of any financial
       activities in that country;

    “information” includes any information, book, document or
       other record in any form whatsoever (including an electronic
       form), as well as any container or article containing any
       information or record;

    “insurance agent” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
       Insurance Act 1966;

    “investigation”, in relation to a domestic authority, means an
       investigation by that authority to determine if a person has
       committed or is committing an applicable offence;

    “Law Officer” means the Attorney-General, a Deputy
       Attorney‑General, the Solicitor‑General, a Deputy Public
       Prosecutor or a legally qualified member of the
       Attorney‑General’s Chambers;

    “office-holder”, in relation to a financial institution, means any
       person acting as the liquidator, the provisional liquidator, the
       receiver or the receiver and manager of the financial
       institution, or acting in an equivalent capacity in relation to
       that financial institution;

    “policy” has the meaning given by the First Schedule to the
       Insurance Act 1966;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            39

“prescribed written law” means the following Acts and the
   subsidiary legislation made under those Acts:

        (a) this Act;

        (b) the Banking Act 1970;

        (c) the Business Trusts Act 2004;

        (d) the Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners’ Protection
             Schemes Act 2011;

        (e) the Finance Companies Act 1967;

        (f) the Financial Advisers Act 2001;

        (g) the Financial Holding Companies Act 2013;

        (h) the Insurance Act 1966;

        (i) the Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970;

        (j) the Payment Services Act 2019;

        (k) the Securities and Futures Act 2001;

        (l) the Trust Companies Act 2005;

       (m) such other Act as the Authority may prescribe by
             regulations made under section 192;

“protected information” means information that is protected
   from unauthorised disclosure under any prescribed written
   law;

“public authority” includes a financial supervisor established as
   an independent non‑governmental authority under a law of a
   foreign country;

“supervision” —

        (a) in relation to an AML/CFT authority of a foreign
             country, means the supervision by the AML/CFT
             authority of foreign financial institutions carrying on
             any financial activities in that country for compliance
             with the AML/CFT requirements of that country
             applicable to those institutions; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
40  NO. 18 OF 2022

              (b) in relation to a domestic authority, means the
                   supervision by the domestic authority of persons
                   regulated by it for compliance with the applicable
                   AML/CFT requirements of Singapore;

      “supervisory action” —

              (a) in relation to an AML/CFT authority, means any
                   action taken by the AML/CFT authority for or in
                   connection with its supervision of foreign financial
                   institutions; or

              (b) in relation to a domestic authority, means any action
                   taken by the domestic authority for or in connection
                   with its supervision of persons regulated by it.

 (2) In this Division, an AML/CFT authority exercises consolidated
supervision authority over a financial institution if —

       (a) the financial institution is either —

               (i) a foreign financial institution established or
                   incorporated in the foreign country of the
                   AML/CFT authority; or

              (ii) a subsidiary of such a foreign financial institution;
                   and

       (b) the AML/CFT authority carries out consolidated
            supervision of the foreign financial institution mentioned
            in paragraph (a)(i) or (ii) (as the case may be) and its
            subsidiaries, branches, agencies and offices outside that
            foreign country, for compliance with the AML/CFT
            requirements of that foreign country that are applicable
            to the foreign financial institution.

Purposes of this Division

 18. The purposes of this Division are —

       (a) to enable the Authority to provide information to an
            AML/CFT authority of a foreign country in connection
            with the AML/CFT authority’s supervision of foreign
            financial institutions carrying on any financial activities in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            41

     that country for compliance with the AML/CFT
     requirements of that country applicable to those
     institutions, including the taking of supervisory action
     against them for a contravention of those requirements;

(b) to enable the Authority to provide information to a
     domestic authority in connection with —

       (i) an investigation into the commission or an alleged
            commission of an applicable offence by a person;

      (ii) an enforcement action against a person for the
            commission or an alleged commission of an
            applicable offence; or

      (iii) a supervisory action against a person regulated by the
            domestic authority for a contravention of an
            applicable AML/CFT requirement of Singapore; and

(c) to enable an AML/CFT authority to carry out an inspection
     in Singapore of a financial institution over which the
     AML/CFT authority exercises consolidated supervision
     authority.

        Subdivision (2) — Assistance to AML/CFT authorities

Conditions for provision of assistance to AML/CFT authority

 19.—(1) The Authority may, on the request of an AML/CFT
authority of a foreign country, provide the assistance referred to in
section 20 to the AML/CFT authority, if the Authority is satisfied that
all of the following conditions are fulfilled:

       (a) the request is received by the Authority on or after the date
            of commencement of this Part;

       (b) the assistance is intended to enable the AML/CFT
            authority to carry out supervision or take supervisory
            action;

       (c) the AML/CFT authority has given a written undertaking
            that any information or copy of any information obtained
            as a result of the request will not be used for any purpose

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
42  NO. 18 OF 2022

         other than a purpose that is specified in the request and
         approved by the Authority;

    (d) the AML/CFT authority has given a written undertaking
         that the AML/CFT authority will not disclose to a third
         party any information or copy of any information obtained
         as a result of the request, unless the AML/CFT authority is
         compelled to do so by the law or a court of the foreign
         country, and that the AML/CFT authority will inform the
         Authority promptly if the AML/CFT authority is so
         compelled;

    (e) the AML/CFT authority has given a written undertaking to
         obtain the prior consent of the Authority before disclosing
         any information or copy of any information obtained as a
         result of the request to a third party, and to make such
         disclosure only in accordance with such conditions as may
         be imposed by the Authority;

    (f) the AML/CFT authority has given a written undertaking to
         otherwise protect the confidentiality of any information or
         copy of any information obtained pursuant to the request;

    (g) the request specifies —

           (i) the purpose of the request and the nature of the
                assistance being sought;

          (ii) the identity of the financial institution which has in
                its possession the information requested for;

          (iii) the relevance of the information requested to the
                supervision or supervisory action (as the case may
                be) of the AML/CFT authority; and

          (iv) any other information that may assist in giving effect
                to the request;

    (h) the type and amount of information requested for is
         proportionate to, and is of sufficient importance to, the
         carrying out of supervision or the taking of the supervisory
         action by the AML/CFT authority;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            43

        (i) the matter to which the request relates is of sufficient
            gravity;

        (j) the AML/CFT authority has given or is willing to give an
            undertaking to the Authority to comply with a future
            request by the Authority to the AML/CFT authority for
            similar assistance;

       (k) the rendering of assistance will not be contrary to the
            national interest or public interest.

 (2) Despite subsection (1)(c), (d), (e) and (f), the Authority may
provide the assistance sought without any of the undertakings
referred to in one or more of those provisions if —

       (a) none of the information requested for is protected
            information; and

       (b) the Authority considers it appropriate to provide the
            assistance in the circumstances of the case.

 (3) In considering whether to provide the assistance referred to in
section 20 to an AML/CFT authority, the Authority may also have
regard to the following:

       (a) if the request concerns a contravention of an AML/CFT
            requirement of a foreign country, whether the act or
            omission that is alleged to constitute the contravention
            would, if it had occurred in Singapore, have constituted a
            contravention of any direction issued under section 15 or
            16, or any regulations made under section 192 for the
            purpose of section 15 or 16;

       (b) whether the AML/CFT authority has given or is willing to
            give an undertaking to the Authority to contribute towards
            the costs of providing the assistance.

Assistance that may be rendered to AML/CFT authority

 20.—(1) Despite the provisions of any prescribed written law or
any requirement imposed under any such written law, any rule of law,
any contract or any rule of professional conduct, the Authority or any
person authorised by the Authority may, in relation to a request by an
AML/CFT authority for assistance, transmit to the AML/CFT

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
44  NO. 18 OF 2022

authority any information in the possession of the Authority that is
requested by the AML/CFT authority or a copy of the information.

 (2) The Authority or any person authorised by the Authority may, in
relation to a request by an AML/CFT authority for assistance —

       (a) order any financial institution or any person who is or used
            to be a chief executive or director, or an executive officer,
            employee, agent or office-holder, of a financial institution
            to provide to the Authority any information requested by
            the AML/CFT authority which is in the possession or
            control of the financial institution or person (as the case
            may be) or a copy of that information, for transmission to
            the AML/CFT authority; or

       (b) request a domestic authority to provide to the Authority
            any information that is requested by the AML/CFT
            authority, or a copy of that information, for transmission
            to the AML/CFT authority.

 (3) An order under subsection (2)(a) has effect despite any
obligation of confidentiality or other restrictions on the disclosure
of information imposed by any prescribed written law or any
requirement imposed under any such written law, any rule of law, any
contract or any rule of professional conduct.

 (4) Nothing in this section requires an advocate and solicitor, or a
legal counsel referred to in section 128A of the Evidence Act 1893 —

       (a) to provide or transmit any information, or a copy of any
            information, that contains; or

       (b) to disclose,

a privileged communication made by or to the advocate and solicitor
or legal counsel in that capacity.

 (5) An advocate and solicitor, or a legal counsel referred to in
section 128A of the Evidence Act 1893, who refuses to provide or
transmit any information, or a copy of any information, that contains,
or to disclose, any privileged communication must nevertheless give
the name and address (if known) of the person to whom, or by or on
behalf of whom, the privileged communication was made.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            45

         Subdivision (3) — Assistance to domestic authorities

Conditions for provision of assistance to domestic authority

 21. The Authority may, on the request of a domestic authority,
provide the assistance referred to in section 22 to the domestic
authority, if the Authority is satisfied that all of the following
conditions, and all such other conditions as the Authority may
determine, are fulfilled:

       (a) the request is received by the Authority on or after the date
            of commencement of this Part;

       (b) the assistance requested for is intended to enable the
            domestic authority to carry out any investigation, or take
            any enforcement action or supervisory action;

       (c) the type and amount of information requested for is
            proportionate to, and is of sufficient importance to, the
            investigation or enforcement action or supervisory action;

       (d) the matter to which the request relates is of sufficient
            gravity.

Assistance that may be rendered to domestic authority

 22.—(1) Despite the provisions of any prescribed written law or
any requirement imposed under any such written law, any rule of law,
any contract or any rule of professional conduct, the Authority or any
person authorised by the Authority may, in relation to a request by a
domestic authority for assistance, transmit to the domestic authority
any information in the possession of the Authority that is requested
by the domestic authority or a copy of the information.

 (2) The Authority or any person authorised by the Authority may, in
relation to a request by a domestic authority for assistance, order any
financial institution or any person who is or used to be a chief
executive or director, or an executive officer, employee, agent or
office‑holder, of a financial institution to provide to the Authority any
information requested by the domestic authority which is in the
possession or control of the financial institution or person (as the case
may be), or a copy of that information, for transmission to the
domestic authority.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
46  NO. 18 OF 2022

 (3) An order under subsection (2) has effect despite any obligation
of confidentiality or other restrictions on the disclosure of
information imposed by any prescribed written law or any
requirement imposed under any such written law, any rule of law,
any contract or any rule of professional conduct.

 (4) Nothing in this section requires an advocate and solicitor, or a
legal counsel referred to in section 128A of the Evidence Act 1893 —

       (a) to provide or transmit any information, or a copy of any
            information, that contains; or

       (b) to disclose,

a privileged communication made by or to the advocate and solicitor
or legal counsel in that capacity.

 (5) An advocate and solicitor, or a legal counsel referred to in
section 128A of the Evidence Act 1893, who refuses to provide or
transmit any information, or a copy of any information, that contains,
or to disclose, any privileged communication must nevertheless give
the name and address (if known) of the person to whom, or by or on
behalf of whom, the privileged communication was made.

              Subdivision (4) — Additional provisions for
                          Subdivisions (2) and (3)

Offences under this Division

 23.—(1) A person shall be guilty of an offence if the person —

       (a) without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to comply with
            an order made under section 20(2)(a) or 22(2);

       (b) without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to comply with
            section 20(5) or 22(5); or

       (c) in purported compliance with an order made under
            section 20(2)(a) or 22(2) or with section 20(5) or 22(5),
            provides to the Authority any information, or copy of any
            information, known to the person to be false or misleading
            in a material particular.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            47

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)(a) or
(b) shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in any case where the person is an individual, to a fine not
            exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 2 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing
            offence, to a further fine not exceeding $5,000 for every
            day or part of a day during which the offence continues
            after conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)(c)
shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in any case where the person is an individual, to a fine not
            exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 2 years or to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

Immunities

 24.—(1) No civil or criminal liability is incurred by any person
for —

       (a) providing to the Authority any information or copy of any
            information, if the person had provided the information or
            copy with reasonable care and in good faith and in
            compliance with an order under section 20(2)(a) or 22(2)
            or with section 20(5) or 22(5); or

       (b) doing or omitting to do any act, if the person had done or
            omitted to do the act with reasonable care and in good faith
            and for the purpose of complying with an order under
            section 20(2)(a) or 22(2) or with section 20(5) or 22(5).

 (2) A person does not breach any restriction upon the disclosure of
information imposed by any prescribed written law or any
requirement imposed under any such written law, any rule of law,
any contract or any rule of professional conduct, if the person makes

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
48  NO. 18 OF 2022

the disclosure with reasonable care and in good faith and in
compliance with an order made under section 20(2)(a) or 22(2) or
with section 20(5) or 22(5).

Authority may provide assistance

 25. Despite the provisions of any prescribed written law or any
requirement imposed under any such written law, any rule of law, any
contract or any rule of professional conduct, the Authority or any
person authorised by the Authority may, on the Authority’s own
motion, and subject to the satisfaction of such conditions as the
Authority may determine, transmit any information in the possession
of the Authority or a copy of the information, to —

       (a) an AML/CFT authority in connection with any supervision
            or supervisory action by the AML/CFT authority; or

       (b) a domestic authority in connection with an investigation,
            an enforcement action or a supervisory action by the
            domestic authority.

         Subdivision (5) — Inspection by AML/CFT authority

Conditions for inspection by AML/CFT authority

 26.—(1) An AML/CFT authority may, with the prior written
approval of the Authority and under conditions of secrecy, conduct
an inspection in Singapore of the books of a financial institution in
accordance with this section, if all of the following conditions are
satisfied:

       (a) the financial institution is one over which the AML/CFT
            authority exercises consolidated supervision authority, and
            the inspection is solely for the purpose of such
            consolidated supervision;

       (b) the AML/CFT authority —

               (i) is prohibited by the laws applicable to it from
                   disclosing information obtained by it in the course of
                   the inspection to any other person, except when
                   compelled to do so by the laws or a court of the
                   country or territory where it is established; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            49

              (ii) has given to the Authority such written undertaking
                   to protect the confidentiality of the information
                   obtained as the Authority may require;

       (c) the AML/CFT authority has given a written undertaking to
            the Authority to comply with such conditions as the
            Authority may impose under subsection (3);

       (d) the AML/CFT authority has provided or is willing to
            provide similar assistance to the Authority.

 (2) The Authority may take into account other factors which the
Authority considers relevant, besides the satisfaction of the
conditions under subsection (1), when deciding whether or not to
give its approval under that subsection.

 (3) The Authority may at any time, whether before, on or after
giving its approval for an inspection under this section, impose
conditions on the AML/CFT authority relating to —

       (a) the classes of information to which the AML/CFT
            authority may or may not have access in the course of
            inspection;

       (b) the conduct of the inspection;

       (c) the use or disclosure of any information obtained in the
            course of the inspection; and

       (d) such other matters as the Authority may determine.

 (4) An AML/CFT authority may, with the prior written approval of
the Authority, appoint any person to conduct the inspection under
subsection (1), and in such event, this section (other than this
subsection) and sections 27 and 28 apply to the person, as if a
reference to the AML/CFT authority in those sections includes a
reference to the person.

 (5) For the purposes of ensuring the confidentiality of any
information obtained in the course of an inspection by an
AML/CFT authority under this section, each provision set out in a
paragraph below applies, with the necessary modifications, to any
official of the AML/CFT authority, and any person referred to in

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
50  NO. 18 OF 2022

subsection (4), as if the official or person were a person set out against
that provision in that paragraph:

       (a) section 47(1) of the Banking Act 1970 — an officer of a
            bank in Singapore (as defined in section 2(1) of that Act);

       (b) section 47(1) of the Banking Act 1970 as applied by
            section 55ZI(1) of that Act — an officer of a merchant
            bank in Singapore (as defined in section 2(1) of that Act);

       (c) section 49(1) of the Trust Companies Act 2005 — an
            officer of a licensed trust company (as defined in section 2
            of that Act) in Singapore.

 (6) The Authority may, in relation to an inspection by an AML/CFT
authority conducted or to be conducted under this section on a
financial institution, at any time, by written notice to the financial
institution impose such conditions or restrictions on the financial
institution as the Authority thinks fit, and the financial institution
must comply with such conditions or restrictions.

Duty of financial institution under inspection

 27.—(1) For the purposes of an inspection under section 26, and
subject to subsection (2), the financial institution must —

       (a) give the AML/CFT authority access to such of the books of
            the financial institution; and

       (b) provide such information (including information relating
            to the internal control systems of the financial institution)
            and facilities,

as the AML/CFT authority may require for the inspection.

 (2) The financial institution need not give the AML/CFT authority
access to the books of the financial institution, or provide information
or facilities, at such times or at such places as would unduly interfere
with the proper conduct of the normal daily business of the financial
institution.

 (3) Subsection (1) has effect despite any obligation of
confidentiality or other restrictions on the disclosure of information
imposed on the financial institution or any of its officers by any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            51

prescribed written law or any requirement imposed under any such
written law, any rule of law, any contract or any rule of professional
conduct.

 (4) A financial institution that, without reasonable excuse, refuses
or neglects to comply with subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000
and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (5) No civil or criminal liability is incurred by a financial institution
or any of its officers in respect of any obligation or restriction referred
to in subsection (3) for doing or omitting to do any act, if the act is
done or omitted to be done with reasonable care and in good faith and
for the purpose of complying with subsection (1).

 (6) A financial institution that or any of its officers who, with
reasonable care and in good faith, does or omits to do any act for the
purpose of complying with subsection (1) is not to be treated as being
in breach of any obligation or restriction referred to in subsection (3).

Confidentiality of inspection reports

 28.—(1) Except as provided in subsection (2), where a written
report has been produced by an AML/CFT authority in respect of a
financial institution following an inspection under section 26, and is
provided by the AML/CFT authority to the financial institution, the
report must not be disclosed to any person by —

       (a) the financial institution; or

       (b) any officer or auditor of the financial institution.

 (2) Disclosure of the report may be made —

       (a) by the financial institution to any officer or auditor of that
            financial institution solely in connection with the
            performance of the duties of the officer or auditor (as the
            case may be) in that financial institution;

       (b) by any officer or auditor of the financial institution to any
            other officer or auditor of that financial institution, solely

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
52  NO. 18 OF 2022

            in connection with the performance of their respective
            duties in that financial institution;

       (c) to the Authority, if requested by the Authority; or

       (d) to such other person as the Authority may approve in
            writing.

 (3) In granting approval for any disclosure under subsection (2)(d),
the Authority may impose such conditions or restrictions as the
Authority thinks fit on the financial institution, any officer or auditor
of that financial institution or the person to whom the disclosure is
approved, and that financial institution, officer, auditor or person (as
the case may be) must comply with those conditions or restrictions.

 (4) The obligations on an officer or auditor under subsections (1)
and (3) continue after the termination or cessation of the employment
or appointment of the officer or auditor by the financial institution.

 (5) A person who contravenes subsection (1), or fails to comply
with any condition or restriction imposed by the Authority under
subsection (3), shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

       (a) in any case where the person is an individual, to a fine not
            exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 3 years or to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000.

 (6) A person to whom the report is disclosed and who knows or has
reasonable grounds for believing, at the time of the disclosure, that
the report was disclosed to the person in contravention of
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

       (a) in any case where the person is an individual, to a fine not
            exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 3 years or to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000.

 (7) Where a person is charged with an offence under subsection (6),
it is a defence for the person to prove that —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            53

(a) the disclosure was made contrary to the person’s desire;

(b) where the disclosure was made in any written or printed
     form, the person had, as soon as practicable after receiving
     the report, surrendered, or taken all reasonable steps to
     surrender, the report and all copies of the report to the
     Authority; and

(c) where the disclosure was made in an electronic form, the
     person had, as soon as practicable after receiving the
     report, taken all reasonable steps to ensure the deletion of
     all electronic copies of the report and the surrender of the
     report and all copies of the report in other forms to the
     Authority.

                                   PART 4A

             INFORMATION SHARING SCHEME FOR
             PRESCRIBED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2023 wef 01/04/2024]

                         Division 1 — Preliminary

Purpose of this Part

 28A.—(1) The purpose of this Part is to permit the disclosure,
publication and sharing of certain information (despite any restriction
against the disclosure, publication or sharing of that information
imposed by law, contract or rules of professional conduct) between or
amongst the persons mentioned in subsection (2), for any of the
following purposes:

       (a) the prevention and detection of money laundering;

       (b) the prevention and detection of terrorism financing;

       (c) the prevention and detection of the financing of
            proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.

 (2) The persons mentioned in subsection (1) are any of the
following:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
54  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (a) any bank in Singapore or financial institution (other than a
            bank), to which this Part applies;

       (b) the Authority;

       (c) any STRO;

       (d) any person specified in the second column of Part 1 or 2 of
            the Third Schedule.

 (3) Any information disclosed, published or shared under this Part
may only be used for a purpose mentioned in subsection (1), except as
otherwise provided for in this Part.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2023 wef 01/04/2024]

Interpretation of this Part

 28B. In this Part —

      “bank in Singapore” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of
         the Banking Act 1970;

      “beneficial owner”, in relation to a relevant party of a prescribed
         financial institution, means —

              (a) an individual who ultimately owns or controls the
                   relevant party;

              (b) an individual who exercises ultimate effective control
                   over the relevant party; or

              (c) an individual on whose behalf the relevant party
                   carries out any transaction, or establishes any
                   relationship, with the prescribed financial institution;

      “beneficiary institution” —

              (a) in relation to a wire transfer, means the bank in
                   Singapore or other financial institution that receives
                   the wire transfer from the ordering institution,
                   directly or through an intermediary institution, and
                   makes the funds available to the wire transfer
                   beneficiary; and

              (b) in relation to a value transfer, means the bank in
                   Singapore or other financial institution that receives

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            55

             the value transfer from the ordering institution,
             directly or through an intermediary institution, and
             makes one or more digital tokens available to the
             value transfer beneficiary;

“capital markets products” has the meaning given by
   section 2(1) of the Securities and Futures Act 2001;

“cover payment chain” means a chain of wire transfers each of
   which combines a payment message sent directly by the
   ordering institution to the beneficiary institution with the
   routing of the funding instruction from the ordering
   institution to the beneficiary institution through one or
   more intermediary institutions;

“digital payment token” has the meaning given by section 2(1)
   of the Payment Services Act 2019;

“digital token” means —

        (a) a digital payment token; or

        (b) a digital representation of a capital markets product
             which —

               (i) can be transferred, stored or traded
                    electronically; and

               (ii) satisfies such other characteristics as the
                    Authority may prescribe,

   but does not include an excluded digital token;

“excluded digital token” means a digital token that is prescribed
   by the Authority as an excluded digital token;

“high-risk indicators” has the meaning given by section 28G(7);

“identifying information” means any of the following
   information:

        (a) full name, including any alias used;

        (b) date of birth, for an individual;

        (c) date of incorporation or registration, for a body
             corporate or unincorporate;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
56  NO. 18 OF 2022

    (d) address or addresses, which must be —

           (i) for an individual, the address of the individual’s
                usual place of residence; or

          (ii) for a body corporate or unincorporate, the
                address of its registered office, the address of
                its principal place of business, or both;

    (e) contact details;

    (f) nationality, for an individual, or place of
         incorporation or registration, for a body corporate
         or unincorporate;

    (g) identification number, which must be —

           (i) for an individual —

                 (A) an identity card number;

                 (B) a passport number;

                 (C) a taxpayer identification number; or

                 (D) the number of any other document of
                       identity issued by any government as
                       evidence of the individual’s nationality or
                       residence and bearing a photograph of the
                       individual; or

          (ii) for a body corporate or unincorporate —

                 (A) a registration number; or

                 (B) the number of any other document issued
                       by any government certifying the
                       incorporation, registration or existence
                       of the body corporate or unincorporate;

    (h) the type of identifying document referred to in
         paragraph (g) and the expiry date (if any) of the
         identifying document;

    (i) occupation, for an individual, or business, for a body
         corporate or unincorporate;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            57

        (j) any other information that the Authority may
             prescribe;

“intermediary institution” —
        (a) in relation to a wire transfer, means the bank in
             Singapore or other financial institution in a serial
             payment chain or cover payment chain that —
               (i) on behalf of an ordering institution —
                     (A) receives a wire transfer from the ordering
                           institution; and
                     (B) transmits the wire transfer to —
                            (BA) the beneficiary institution; or
                            (BB) another intermediary institution;
               (ii) on behalf of a beneficiary institution —
                     (A) receives a wire transfer from —
                            (AA) the ordering institution; or
                            (AB) another intermediary institution;
                                    and
                     (B) transmits the wire transfer to the
                           beneficiary institution; or
              (iii) on behalf of an intermediary institution (A) —
                     (A) receives a wire transfer from A; and
                     (B) transmits the wire transfer to —
                            (BA) the beneficiary institution; or
                            (BB) another intermediary institution;
                                    and
        (b) in relation to a value transfer, means the bank in
             Singapore or other financial institution that —
               (i) on behalf of an ordering institution —
                     (A) receives a value transfer from the
                           ordering institution; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
58  NO. 18 OF 2022

                         (B) transmits the value transfer to —
                                (BA) the beneficiary institution; or

                                (BB) another intermediary institution;
                   (ii) on behalf of a beneficiary institution —

                         (A) receives a value transfer from —
                                (AA) the ordering institution; or
                                (AB) another intermediary institution;
                                        and

                         (B) transmits the value transfer to the
                               beneficiary institution; or

                  (iii) on behalf of an intermediary institution (A) —
                         (A) receives a value transfer from A; and
                         (B) transmits the value transfer to —

                                (BA) the beneficiary institution; or
                                (BB) another intermediary institution;

    “limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by
       section 4(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

    “manager”, in relation to a limited liability partnership, has the
       meaning given by section 2(1) of the Limited Liability
       Partnerships Act 2005;

    “officer” —

            (a) in relation to a body corporate, includes —
                   (i) a director, a secretary or an employee of the
                        body corporate;
                   (ii) a receiver or manager of any part of the
                        undertaking of the body corporate appointed
                        under a power contained in any instrument; and

                  (iii) the liquidator of the body corporate appointed
                        in a voluntary winding up; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            59

        (b) in relation to a body unincorporate (other than a
             partnership), means the president, the secretary, or
             any member of the committee of the body
             unincorporate, and includes —

               (i) any person holding a position analogous to that
                    of president, secretary or member of a
                    committee of the body unincorporate; and

               (ii) any person purporting to act in any such
                    capacity;

“ordering institution” —

        (a) in relation to a wire transfer, means the bank in
             Singapore or other financial institution that, upon
             receiving a request for a wire transfer by the wire
             transfer originator, initiates the wire transfer and
             transfers the funds on behalf of the wire transfer
             originator; and

        (b) in relation to a value transfer, means the bank in
             Singapore or other financial institution that, upon
             receiving a request for a value transfer by the value
             transfer originator, initiates the value transfer and
             transfers the digital tokens on behalf of the value
             transfer originator;

“partner”, in relation to a limited liability partnership, has the
   meaning given by section 2(1) of the Limited Liability
   Partnerships Act 2005;

“prescribed financial institution” means any of the following:

        (a) a bank in Singapore prescribed by regulations made
             under section 192 read with section 28C(a);

        (b) a financial institution (other than a bank) prescribed
             by regulations made under section 192 read with
             section 28C(b);

“relationship”, in relation to a prescribed financial institution
   and a person, means the relationship between the prescribed

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
60  NO. 18 OF 2022

       financial institution and the person in the person’s capacity as
       a customer of the prescribed financial institution;

    “relevant party”, in relation to a prescribed financial institution,
       means a person who —

            (a) is a customer, seeks to be a customer or has been a
                 customer of the prescribed financial institution; and

            (b) is either —

                   (i) prescribed by regulations made under
                        section 192 as a relevant party of that
                        prescribed financial institution; or

                   (ii) a member of a class of persons prescribed by
                        regulations made under section 192 as relevant
                        parties of the prescribed financial institution;

    “risk information”, in relation to a relevant party of a prescribed
       financial institution, means any of the following information
       or documents:

            (a) any particulars of the relevant party, including any
                 identifying information of —

                   (i) the relevant party;

                   (ii) the authorised signatory or signatories of the
                        relevant party;

                  (iii) the beneficial owner or owners of the relevant
                        party;

                  (iv) any officer of the relevant party;

                   (v) where the relevant party is a partnership, any
                        partner of the relevant party; and

                  (vi) where the relevant party is a limited liability
                        partnership, any partner or manager of the
                        relevant party;

            (b) any particulars of the relationship between the
                 relevant party and the prescribed financial institution;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            61

        (c) any particulars of any transaction the relevant party is
             a party to;

        (d) any particulars of the high-risk indicators in relation
             to the relevant party that the prescribed financial
             institution knows of;

        (e) the prescribed financial institution’s analysis of the
             high-risk indicators mentioned in paragraph (d);

        (f) any other information that the prescribed financial
             institution has obtained, or any other analysis that the
             prescribed financial institution has performed, for the
             purpose of assessing whether the relevant party may
             have been or may be concerned in money laundering,
             terrorism financing, or the financing of proliferation
             of weapons of mass destruction;

        (g) any documents evidencing any of the matters in
             paragraphs (a) to (f);

        (h) any other information or documents that the
             Authority may prescribe;

“serial payment chain” means a direct sequential chain of
   payment where the wire transfer and accompanying payment
   message travel together from the ordering institution to the
   beneficiary institution, directly or through one or more
   intermediary institutions;

“STRO” means any Suspicious Transaction Reporting Officer
   as defined in section 2(1) of the Corruption, Drug Trafficking
   and Other Serious Crimes (Confiscation of Benefits)
   Act 1992;

“threshold criteria”, in relation to a prescribed financial
   institution, means the criteria issued by the Authority under
   section 28G(1)(a) to the prescribed financial institution;

“value transfer” means any transaction carried out on behalf of a
   value transfer originator through a financial institution by
   electronic means with a view to making one or more digital
   tokens available to a value transfer beneficiary, irrespective

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
62  NO. 18 OF 2022

         of whether the value transfer originator and the value transfer
         beneficiary are the same person;

      “value transfer beneficiary” means the person who is identified
         by the value transfer originator as the receiver of the digital
         tokens to be transferred in a value transfer;

      “value transfer originator” means —

              (a) a person who holds an account containing digital
                   tokens with a financial institution and who allows a
                   value transfer from that account; or

              (b) a person who does not hold an account containing
                   digital tokens with a financial institution, but who
                   requests the financial institution to initiate a value
                   transfer;

      “wire transfer” means any transaction carried out on behalf of a
         wire transfer originator through a financial institution by
         electronic means with a view to making an amount of funds
         available to a wire transfer beneficiary, irrespective of
         whether the wire transfer originator and the wire transfer
         beneficiary are the same person;

      “wire transfer beneficiary” means the person who is identified
         by the wire transfer originator as the receiver of the funds to
         be transferred in a wire transfer;

      “wire transfer originator” means —

              (a) a person who holds an account containing funds with
                   a financial institution and who allows a wire transfer
                   from that account; or

              (b) a person who does not hold an account containing
                   funds with a financial institution, but who requests
                   the financial institution to initiate a wire transfer.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2023 wef 01/04/2024]

Prescribed financial institutions

 28C. For the purposes of this Part, the Authority may by regulations
made under section 192 prescribe —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            63

       (a) a bank in Singapore as a bank in Singapore to which this
            Part applies; and

       (b) a financial institution (other than a bank) as a financial
            institution to which this Part applies.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2023 wef 01/04/2024]

              Division 2 — Disclosure of risk information

Request for risk information

 28D.—(1) Subject to this section, a prescribed financial institution
(called in this section the requester) may request from another
prescribed financial institution (called in this section the discloser)
any risk information relating to —

       (a) a relevant party of the requester which the requester knows
            or has reason to believe is a relevant party of the discloser;

       (b) a relevant party of the requester, where the requester knows
            that the relevant party is a party to a wire transfer or value
            transfer in respect of which the discloser is —

               (i) the ordering institution;

              (ii) the intermediary institution; or

             (iii) the beneficiary institution, the wire transfer
                   beneficiary or the value transfer beneficiary;

       (c) a relevant party (A) of the discloser, where the requester
            knows that a relevant party of the requester and A are
            counterparties to a wire transfer or value transfer in respect
            of which the discloser is —

               (i) the ordering institution; or

              (ii) the beneficiary institution;

       (d) a relevant party of the requester, where the requester knows
            that the relevant party is a party to a series of wire transfers
            or value transfers in respect of which for any wire transfer
            in the series of wire transfers or value transfer in the series
            of value transfers (as the case may be), the discloser is —

               (i) the ordering institution;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
64  NO. 18 OF 2022

              (ii) the intermediary institution; or

             (iii) the beneficiary institution, the wire transfer
                   beneficiary or the value transfer beneficiary; or

       (e) a relevant party (B) of the discloser, where the requester
            knows that a relevant party of the requester and B are
            counterparties to a series of wire transfers or value
            transfers in respect of which for any wire transfer in the
            series of wire transfers or value transfer in the series of
            value transfers (as the case may be), the discloser is —

               (i) the ordering institution; or

              (ii) the beneficiary institution.

 (2) A requester must be satisfied of the following before making a
request under subsection (1):

       (a) the threshold criteria for the request applicable to the
            requester are satisfied;

       (b) in the case of a request under paragraph (b) or (c) of
            subsection (1), that at least one high-risk indicator of the
            requester’s relevant party considered by the requester in
            determining that the threshold criteria are satisfied relates
            to the wire transfer or value transfer in respect of which the
            request under that paragraph was made;

       (c) in the case of a request under paragraph (d) or (e) of
            subsection (1), that at least one high-risk indicator of the
            requester’s relevant party considered by the requester in
            determining that the threshold criteria are satisfied relates
            to the series of wire transfers or value transfers in respect of
            which the request under that paragraph was made.

 (3) A request mentioned in subsection (1) must —

       (a) disclose the threshold criteria applicable to the requester
            and identify the high-risk indicators of the requester’s
            relevant party that the requester has considered in
            determining that the threshold criteria applicable to the
            requester are satisfied;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            65

       (b) contain a statement to the effect that the requester is
            satisfied that the threshold criteria applicable to the
            requester are satisfied; and

       (c) explain how the risk information requested would assist
            the requester in assessing whether the relevant party of the
            requester mentioned in subsection (1) may have been or
            may be concerned in money laundering, terrorism
            financing, or the financing of proliferation of weapons of
            mass destruction.

 (4) A requester may, in making a request under subsection (1),
disclose any risk information that the requester considers necessary
to —

       (a) comply with subsection (3); or

       (b) enable the discloser to identify the risk information that is
            being requested and to comply with the request.

 (5) Subject to subsection (6), a discloser that has the risk
information requested may disclose that risk information.

 (6) Before disclosing any risk information under subsection (5), the
discloser must be satisfied of all of the following:

       (a) the threshold criteria applicable to the requester are
            satisfied;

       (b) the risk information requested is necessary to assist the
            requester to assess whether the relevant party of the
            requester mentioned in subsection (1) may have been or
            may be concerned in money laundering, terrorism
            financing, or the financing of proliferation of weapons of
            mass destruction, as explained by the requester under
            subsection (3)(c);

       (c) the kind and amount of risk information requested for is
            proportionate, having regard to the likelihood that the
            relevant party of the requester mentioned in subsection (1)
            may have been or may be concerned in money laundering,
            terrorism financing, or the financing of proliferation of

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
66  NO. 18 OF 2022

            weapons of mass destruction, as explained by the requester
            under subsection (3)(c).

 (7) A discloser that declines to disclose the risk information
requested because the discloser is not satisfied of one or more of
the matters referred to in subsection (6), must notify the requester of
the discloser’s decision and the discloser’s reasons for the decision.

 (8) A discloser may disclose any other risk information that it has if
the discloser is satisfied that the other risk information is related to the
requester’s request and will assist the requester to assess whether the
relevant party of the requester mentioned in subsection (1) may have
been or may be concerned in money laundering, terrorism financing,
or the financing of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2023 wef 01/04/2024]

Provision of risk information

 28E.—(1) Subject to this section, a prescribed financial institution
(called in this section the discloser) may on its own motion disclose to
another prescribed financial institution (called in this section the
recipient) any risk information relating to —

       (a) a relevant party of the discloser which the discloser knows
            or has reason to believe is a relevant party of the recipient;

       (b) a relevant party of the discloser, where the discloser knows
            that the relevant party is a party to a wire transfer or value
            transfer in respect of which the recipient is —

               (i) the ordering institution;

              (ii) the intermediary institution; or

             (iii) the beneficiary institution, the wire transfer
                   beneficiary or the value transfer beneficiary;

       (c) a relevant party (A) of the recipient, where the discloser
            knows that a relevant party of the discloser and A are
            counterparties to a wire transfer or value transfer in respect
            of which the recipient is —

               (i) the ordering institution; or

              (ii) the beneficiary institution;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            67

       (d) a relevant party of the discloser, where the discloser knows
            that the relevant party is a party to a series of wire transfers
            or value transfers in respect of which for any wire transfer
            in the series of wire transfers or value transfer in the series
            of value transfers (as the case may be), the recipient is —

               (i) the ordering institution;

              (ii) the intermediary institution; or

             (iii) the beneficiary institution, the wire transfer
                   beneficiary or the value transfer beneficiary; or

       (e) a relevant party (B) of the recipient, where the discloser
            knows that a relevant party of the discloser and B are
            counterparties to a series of wire transfers or value
            transfers in respect of which for any wire transfer in the
            series of wire transfers or value transfer in the series of
            value transfers (as the case may be), the recipient is —

               (i) the ordering institution; or

              (ii) the beneficiary institution.

 (2) A discloser must be satisfied of the following before making a
disclosure under subsection (1):

       (a) the threshold criteria for the disclosure applicable to the
            discloser are satisfied;

       (b) in the case of a disclosure under paragraph (b) or (c) of
            subsection (1), that at least one high-risk indicator of the
            discloser’s relevant party considered by the discloser in
            determining that the threshold criteria are satisfied relates
            to the wire transfer or value transfer in respect of which the
            disclosure under that paragraph was made;

       (c) in the case of a disclosure under paragraph (d) or (e) of
            subsection (1), that at least one high-risk indicator of the
            discloser’s relevant party considered by the discloser in
            determining that the threshold criteria are satisfied relates
            to the series of wire transfers or value transfers in respect of
            which the disclosure under that paragraph was made.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2023 wef 01/04/2024]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
68  NO. 18 OF 2022

Publication on electronic information sharing system

 28F.—(1) Subject to this section, a prescribed financial institution
(called in this section a lister) that —

       (a) has made a suspicious transaction report in respect of any
            property; and

       (b) has —

               (i) declined to establish a relationship, or decided to
                   decline to establish a relationship, with a relevant
                   party connected to the property; or

              (ii) terminated a relationship, or decided to terminate a
                   relationship, with a relevant party connected to the
                   property,

may publish any risk information that the Authority may specify
relating to the relevant party connected to the property to all
prescribed financial institutions on the electronic information sharing
system established under section 28N(1).

 (2) Before making a publication under subsection (1), the lister
must be satisfied that the threshold criteria for publication applicable
to the lister are satisfied.

 (3) Any prescribed financial institution may access the risk
information published by the lister under subsection (1).

 (4) For the purposes of this section, a relevant party is connected to
a property if —

       (a) the property is owned or controlled, directly or indirectly,
            by the relevant party; or

       (b) where the property is —

               (i) the subject of a transaction that is a wire transfer, the
                   relevant party is the wire transfer originator or wire
                   transfer beneficiary; and

              (ii) the subject of a transaction that is a value transfer, the
                   relevant party is the value transfer originator or value
                   transfer beneficiary.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            69

 (5) In this section, “suspicious transaction report” means a
disclosure under section 45(1) of the Corruption, Drug Trafficking
and Other Serious Crimes (Confiscation of Benefits) Act 1992.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2023 wef 01/04/2024]

Threshold criteria and high-risk indicators

 28G.—(1) The Authority must issue to each prescribed financial
institution (A) —

       (a) the criteria applicable to A for determining whether —

               (i) risk information relating to a relevant party may be
                   requested by A under section 28D; and

              (ii) risk information relating to a relevant party may be
                   disclosed by A under section 28E, or published by A
                   under section 28F; and

       (b) the high-risk indicators of relevant parties of A that must be
            considered in determining whether the threshold criteria
            applicable to A are satisfied.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3) —

       (a) the criteria mentioned in subsection (1)(a) must not be
            divulged by A or any officer of A except —

               (i) as permitted by section 28D, 28E or 28F;

              (ii) as required by a written notice issued under
                   section 28H to correct an error or omission in risk
                   information disclosed under section 28D or 28E, or
                   published under section 28F; or

             (iii) as expressly permitted by the Authority; and

       (b) the high-risk indicators mentioned in subsection (1)(b)
            must not be divulged by A or any officer of A except —

               (i) as permitted by section 28D, 28E or 28F;

              (ii) as required by a written notice issued under
                   section 28H to correct an error or omission in risk
                   information disclosed under section 28D or 28E, or
                   published under section 28F; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
70  NO. 18 OF 2022

             (iii) as expressly permitted by the Authority.

 (3) The criteria and high-risk indicators mentioned in subsection (1)
may be divulged —

       (a) by A to any officer of A solely in connection with the
            performance of the duties of the officer in A; and

       (b) by any officer of A to any other officer of A, solely in
            connection with the performance of their duties in A.

 (4) The Authority may issue the criteria under subsection (1)(a) or
the high-risk indicators under subsection (1)(b) (or both) to a class of
prescribed financial institutions and if so, the Authority is to inform
each prescribed financial institution of that class of that fact and the
identity of the members of that class.

 (5) The obligation under subsection (2) applies to any officer of the
prescribed financial institution despite the officer’s subsequent
cessation of appointment or employment as an officer of the
prescribed financial institution.

 (6) A person that contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 years or to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $1 million.

 (7) In this section, “high-risk indicators”, in relation to a relevant
party of a prescribed financial institution, means —

       (a) any behaviour of the relevant party of the prescribed
            financial institution; or

       (b) any circumstance,

that indicates a high risk that the relevant party of the prescribed
financial institution may have been or may be concerned in money
laundering, terrorism financing, or the financing of proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2023 wef 01/04/2024]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            71

Power of Authority to issue written notice

 28H.—(1) The Authority may, if it thinks it necessary or expedient
for the effective administration of this Part, issue a written notice,
either of a general or specific nature, to any prescribed financial
institution or any class of prescribed financial institutions, to comply
with any requirement that the Authority may specify in the notice,
relating to any request for, access to, disclosure of or publication of
any risk information under section 28D, 28E or 28F.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), such a notice may be issued —

       (a) with respect to —

               (i) the measures to be taken to ensure the accuracy and
                   completeness of any risk information requested for,
                   accessed, disclosed or published under section 28D,
                   28E or 28F (called in this section specified risk
                   information), including the measures to be taken to
                   correct any error or omission in any specified risk
                   information and a requirement to notify the
                   Authority as soon as practicable after any such
                   error or omission comes to the knowledge of the
                   prescribed financial institution;

              (ii) the protection of specified risk information from
                   unauthorised use and disclosure, including the
                   systems and processes to be established to keep
                   any specified risk information confidential;

             (iii) the form and manner of any disclosure or publication
                   of risk information under section 28D, 28E or 28F;
                   and

             (iv) the records to be kept in relation to any request for,
                   access to, disclosure of or publication of any risk
                   information under section 28D, 28E or 28F; and

       (b) to require any person that contravenes, has contravened, or
            is likely to contravene any provision of this Part, the
            contravention of which is an offence, to implement, within
            the time frame specified in the notice, the measures
            specified in the notice for the purpose of rectifying,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
72  NO. 18 OF 2022

            remediating or mitigating the consequences of the
            contravention or to prevent the contravention of that
            provision, as the case may be.

 (3) It is not necessary to publish any written notice issued under
subsection (1) in the Gazette.

 (4) The Authority may at any time vary, rescind or revoke any
written notice issued under subsection (1).

 (5) A prescribed financial institution that fails to comply with any
requirement applicable to it specified in a written notice issued under
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $1 million; and

       (b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine of
            $100,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
            offence continues after conviction.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2023 wef 01/04/2024]

Immunity and negation of secrecy obligations

 28I. A prescribed financial institution or an officer of a prescribed
financial institution authorised to act for the prescribed financial
institution, or both —

       (a) may —

               (i) in accordance with the provisions of section 28D,
                   28E or 28F; or

              (ii) as required by a written notice issued under
                   section 28H, for the purpose of correcting an error
                   or omission in risk information —

                    (A) disclosed under section 28D or 28E; or

                     (B) published under section 28F,

       (a) disclose or publish (as the case may be) any risk
            information relating to any relevant party despite any
            obligation as to secrecy or other restrictions upon the
            disclosure of information imposed by any written law, rule
            of law, contract or rule of professional conduct; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            73

       (b) is or are not liable for any loss arising out of the disclosure
            or publication, or any act or omission in consequence of the
            disclosure or publication if the disclosure or publication
            was —

               (i) made or published (as the case may be) with
                   reasonable care and in good faith; and

              (ii) made or published (as the case may be) either —

                    (A) in accordance with section 28D, 28E or 28F; or

                     (B) as required by a written notice issued under
                          section 28H, for the purpose of correcting an
                          error or omission in risk information —

                            (BA) disclosed under section 28D or 28E; or

                            (BB) published under section 28F.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2023 wef 01/04/2024]

False or misleading disclosures

 28J. A prescribed financial institution, or an officer of the
prescribed financial institution, that knowingly or recklessly —

       (a) discloses any risk information under section 28D or 28E;

       (b) publishes any risk information under section 28F; or

       (c) makes any correction to the risk information mentioned in
            paragraph (a) or (b),

that is false or misleading in a material particular, shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (d) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3
            years or to both; or

       (e) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $1 million.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2023 wef 01/04/2024]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
74  NO. 18 OF 2022

    Division 3 — Access to and use of risk information disclosed

Use of disclosed risk information by prescribed financial
institution

 28K.—(1) A prescribed financial institution must not disclose any
risk information that it receives or accesses under this Part to any
other person except as expressly provided for in subsection (2) or (3).

 (2) A prescribed financial institution may, for a purpose specified in
the first column of Part 1 of the Third Schedule, disclose —

       (a) any risk information that the prescribed financial
            institution receives under section 28D or 28E;

       (b) any risk information that the prescribed financial
            institution accesses under section 28F; or

       (c) any correction to any risk information mentioned in
            paragraph (a) or (b),

to a person or class of persons specified in the second column of
Part 1 of the Third Schedule.

 (3) A prescribed financial institution may, for a purpose specified in
the first column of Part 2 of the Third Schedule, disclose —

       (a) any risk information that the prescribed financial
            institution receives under section 28D or 28E;

       (b) any risk information that the prescribed financial
            institution accesses under section 28F; or

       (c) any correction to any risk information mentioned in
            paragraph (a) or (b),

to a person specified in the second column of Part 2 of the Third
Schedule but subject to the restrictions and conditions specified in the
third column of that Part of that Schedule.

 (4) A person in Singapore that is specified in the second column of
Part 2 of the Third Schedule must not disclose any risk information
that the person receives from a prescribed financial institution under
this Part unless the person is required to do so by an order of court.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            75

 (5) In this section and the Third Schedule —

       (a) where disclosure of risk information is authorised under
            the Third Schedule to be made to any person that is a body
            corporate, risk information may be disclosed to any officer
            of the body corporate as may be necessary for the purpose
            for which the disclosure is authorised under that Schedule;

       (b) the obligation under subsection (1) —

               (i) applies to any officer of the prescribed financial
                   institution who received the risk information
                   mentioned in that subsection for the prescribed
                   financial institution or had access to the risk
                   information; and

              (ii) continues despite the officer’s subsequent cessation
                   of appointment or employment as an officer of the
                   prescribed financial institution; and

       (c) the obligation under subsection (4) —

               (i) applies to any officer in Singapore of a person in
                   Singapore that is a body corporate, who received the
                   risk information mentioned in that subsection for the
                   body corporate or had access to the risk information;
                   and

              (ii) continues despite the officer’s subsequent cessation
                   of appointment or employment as an officer of the
                   body corporate.

 (6) A person who contravenes subsection (1), subsection (1) (as
applied by subsection (5)(b)), subsection (4) or subsection (4) (as
applied by subsection (5)(c)) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 years or to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2023 wef 01/04/2024]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
76  NO. 18 OF 2022

Use of disclosed risk information by Authority and STROs

 28L.—(1) The Authority is entitled —

       (a) to a copy of every disclosure of risk information made by a
            prescribed financial institution under section 28D or 28E,
            including any correction to such risk information; and

       (b) to access every publication of risk information by a
            prescribed financial institution under section 28F,
            including any correction to such risk information.

 (2) The Authority may only use the risk information mentioned in
subsection (1) for the purpose of detecting and preventing —

       (a) money laundering;

       (b) terrorism financing; or

       (c) the financing of proliferation of weapons of mass
            destruction.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (2), the Authority may disclose any
risk information mentioned in subsection (1) to another prescribed
financial institution for the purpose of detecting and preventing any
of the matters specified in subsection (2)(a), (b) or (c).

 (4) The Authority may give any STRO access to all or any risk
information disclosed or published (including any correction to such
risk information) on the electronic information sharing system
established and maintained under section 28N(1), for the purpose
of detecting and preventing any of the matters specified in
subsection (2)(a), (b) or (c).

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsections (2) and (4) do not prevent the
disclosure of any information by the Authority under and in
accordance with Division 2 of Part 4.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2023 wef 01/04/2024]

Application of sections 21 and 22 of Personal Data Protection
Act 2012

 28M. Sections 21 and 22 of the Personal Data Protection Act 2012
do not apply to a prescribed financial institution in relation to any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            77

personal data about an individual that is in the possession or under the
control of the prescribed financial institution if —

       (a) the personal data was risk information received by the
            prescribed financial institution under section 28D or 28E,
            including any correction to such risk information; or

       (b) the personal data was risk information accessed by the
            prescribed financial institution under section 28F,
            including any correction to such risk information.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2023 wef 01/04/2024]

         Division 4 — Electronic information sharing system

Establishment of electronic information sharing system

 28N.—(1) The Authority must establish and maintain an electronic
information sharing system for the purpose of —

       (a) enabling requests for risk information under section 28D to
            be made by prescribed financial institutions;

       (b) enabling disclosures of risk information under
            sections 28D and 28E to be disclosed and received by
            prescribed financial institutions;

       (c) enabling disclosures of risk information under section 28F
            to be published and accessed by prescribed financial
            institutions;

       (d) enabling corrections to any error or omission in the risk
            information mentioned in paragraph (b) or (c) to be made;
            and

       (e) keeping a record of the requests, disclosures and
            corrections mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (d).

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), any request for risk information made
under section 28D, any disclosure of risk information made under
section 28D or 28E, any publication of risk information under
section 28F, and any correction to any error or omission in such risk
information, must be made —

       (a) using the electronic information sharing system
            established under subsection (1); and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
78  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (b) in accordance with the rules for use of the electronic
            information sharing system established under
            subsection (1) published by the Authority.

 (3) If —

       (a) any request for risk information under section 28D;

       (b) any disclosure of risk information under section 28D or
            28E;

       (c) any publication of risk information under section 28F; or

       (d) any correction to any error or omission in the risk
            information mentioned in paragraph (b) or (c),

cannot be made using the electronic information sharing system
established under subsection (1) (whether because of a failure or
unavailability of or interruption to the electronic information sharing
system or otherwise), the prescribed financial institution may make
the request, disclosure, publication or correction in the manner
specified in any direction published by the Authority.

 (4) If any publication of risk information under section 28F
(including any correction to any error or omission in such risk
information) cannot be accessed by any prescribed financial
institution, the Authority must provide reasonable alternative
means by which the risk information may be accessed by the
prescribed financial institution.

 (5) Where a prescribed financial institution informs the Authority
that the prescribed financial institution refuses to comply with any
rules for use of the electronic information sharing system mentioned
in subsection (2)(b), the Authority may refuse to grant the prescribed
financial institution access to the electronic information sharing
system.

 (6) Where a prescribed financial institution fails to comply with any
rules for use of the electronic information sharing system mentioned
in subsection (2)(b), the Authority may terminate, suspend or restrict
the prescribed financial institution’s access to the electronic
information sharing system.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            79

(7) To avoid doubt, the Authority may —

      (a) use the electronic information sharing system established
           under subsection (1) to disseminate any risk information
           mentioned in section 28L(1) to another prescribed
           financial institution for the purpose of detecting or
           preventing any of the matters specified in
           section 28L(2)(a), (b) or (c);

      (b) allow a prescribed financial institution to use the electronic
           information sharing system established under
           subsection (1) to communicate with another prescribed
           financial institution in relation to —

             (i) any request for risk information under section 28D;

            (ii) any disclosure of risk information under section 28D
                  or 28E;

            (iii) any publication of risk information under
                  section 28F; or

            (iv) any correction to any error or omission in the risk
                  information mentioned in sub‑paragraph (ii) or (iii);
                  or

      (c) use the electronic information sharing system established
           under subsection (1) to analyse any risk information
           mentioned in section 28L(1) for the purpose of detecting
           or preventing any of the matters specified in
           section 28L(2)(a), (b) or (c).

                                                                             [Act 19 of 2023 wef 01/04/2024]

                                    PART 5

               TECHNOLOGY RISK MANAGEMENT

Power of Authority in relation to technology risk management

 29.—(1) The Authority may, from time to time, issue such
directions, or make such regulations under section 192, concerning
any financial institution or class of financial institutions as the
Authority considers necessary for —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
80  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (a) the management of technology risks, including cyber
            security risks;

       (b) the safe and sound use of technology to deliver financial
            services; and

       (c) the safe and sound use of technology to protect data.

 (2) A financial institution that fails to comply with a direction
issued to the financial institution under subsection (1) or contravenes
any regulations mentioned in that subsection shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$1 million and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine of
$100,000 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

                                    PART 6

                 DISPUTE RESOLUTION SCHEMES

Interpretation of this Part

 30. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “approved dispute resolution scheme” means a dispute
         resolution scheme approved by the Authority under
         section 31(1);

      “operator”, in relation to a dispute resolution scheme approved
         under section 31(1), means a person who administers a
         dispute resolution scheme;

      “terms of reference”, in relation to an approved dispute
         resolution scheme, means the terms which define the
         scope, application, operations and procedures of the
         approved dispute resolution scheme.

Approval of dispute resolution schemes

 31.—(1) For the purposes of this Part, the Authority may approve
any dispute resolution scheme for the resolution of disputes arising
from or relating to the provision of financial services by financial
institutions.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            81

 (2) An application for approval of a dispute resolution scheme
must —

       (a) be made by the person who intends to administer the
            dispute resolution scheme as its operator;

       (b) be made in such form and manner as the Authority may
            specify;

       (c) be accompanied by an application fee (if prescribed);

       (d) be accompanied by the proposed terms of reference for the
            dispute resolution scheme; and

       (e) provide any information or document as the Authority may
            require for the purposes of the application.

 (3) The approval of a dispute resolution scheme on an application
made under subsection (2) is subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed or as may be specified by the Authority, or both.

 (4) The Authority may refuse to approve an application for a
dispute resolution scheme made under subsection (2) if —

       (a) the applicant of the dispute resolution scheme does not
            meet the prescribed requirements;

       (b) the proposed terms of reference for the dispute resolution
            scheme do not meet the prescribed requirements;

       (c) the applicant has not provided the Authority with the
            information or documents required by the Authority for the
            purposes of the application;

       (d) the applicant has provided to the Authority any false or
            misleading information or document;

       (e) the Authority has reason to believe that the applicant —

               (i) will not administer the dispute resolution scheme
                   efficiently, honestly or fairly; or

              (ii) may not act in the interests of the members of the
                   dispute resolution scheme or consumers; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
82  NO. 18 OF 2022

        (f) the Authority is of the opinion that it would be contrary to
            the public interest to approve the dispute resolution
            scheme.

Approval of chief executive officer and directors of dispute
resolution scheme operator

 32.—(1) It is a condition of an approval for any dispute resolution
scheme approved under section 31(1) that the operator of an approved
dispute resolution scheme must not appoint a person as its chief
executive officer or director without the prior approval of the
Authority.

 (2) Without limiting any other matter that the Authority may
consider relevant, the Authority may, in determining whether to grant
its approval under subsection (1), have regard to such criteria as may
be prescribed or as the Authority may notify in writing to the operator
of the dispute resolution scheme.

Removal of chief executive officer or director of dispute
resolution scheme operator

 33.—(1) Despite the provisions of any other written law, where the
Authority is satisfied that an individual appointed as chief executive
officer or director of an operator of an approved dispute resolution
scheme is not a fit and proper person under the Guidelines on Fit and
Proper Criteria to be a chief executive officer or director (as the case
may be) of the operator, the Authority may, by written notice to the
operator, direct the operator to remove the chief executive officer or
director (as the case may be) from his or her office or employment
within such period as may be specified by the Authority in the notice,
and the operator must comply with the notice.

 (2) Without affecting any other matter that the Authority may
consider relevant, in assessing whether to direct an operator to
remove an individual under subsection (1), the Authority may
consider any matter which the Authority considers relevant,
including (but not limited to) whether —

       (a) the individual has wilfully contravened or wilfully caused
            the operator to contravene any provision of this Act;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            83

       (b) the individual has, without reasonable excuse, failed to
            secure the compliance of the operator with this Act;

       (c) the individual has failed to discharge any of the duties of
            his or her office or employment; or

       (d) the individual’s removal is necessary in the public interest
            or for the protection of investors.

 (3) Before directing an operator to remove an individual under
subsection (1), the Authority must give both the operator and the
affected individual an opportunity to be heard, except in any of the
following circumstances:

       (a) the individual is an undischarged bankrupt, whether in
            Singapore or elsewhere;

       (b) the individual has been convicted, whether in Singapore or
            elsewhere, of an offence, committed before, on or after the
            date of commencement of this Part —

               (i) involving fraud or dishonesty or the conviction for
                   which involved a finding that the individual had
                   acted fraudulently or dishonestly; and

              (ii) punishable with imprisonment for a term of 3 months
                   or more.

Appeals to Minister

 34. An operator, or a chief executive officer or director of an
operator, who is aggrieved by a decision of the Authority under
section 33(1) may, within 30 days after receiving the direction, appeal
in writing to the Minister, whose decision is final.

Approval of amendment to constitution of dispute resolution
scheme operator

 35. It is a condition of an approval for any dispute resolution
scheme approved under section 31(1) that the operator of the
approved dispute resolution scheme that is a company must not
amend its constitution without the prior approval of the Authority.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
84  NO. 18 OF 2022

Requirement for financial institution to be member of
approved dispute resolution scheme

 36.—(1) The Authority may, by regulations made under
section 192, require a financial institution to be a member of such
approved dispute resolution scheme and to comply with such terms of
membership of the scheme as may be prescribed.

 (2) A financial institution that, without reasonable excuse,
contravenes any regulations mentioned in subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $50,000.

 (3) Where the Authority is satisfied that a financial institution has
contravened any regulations mentioned in subsection (1), the
Authority may do one or both of the following:

       (a) if the Authority thinks it necessary in the public interest or
            for the protection of consumers, reprimand the financial
            institution;

       (b) impose on the financial institution under this Act or any
            other MAS scheduled Act under which the financial
            institution is licensed, approved, authorised, designated,
            recognised, registered, or otherwise regulated, or
            exempted from being licensed, approved, authorised,
            designated, recognised, registered or regulated, such
            conditions or restrictions, on its licence, approval,
            authorisation, designation, recognition, registration, or
            exemption under that Act as the Authority thinks fit,
            including restricting the scope of the activities which the
            financial institution is allowed to conduct under that Act;
            and the financial institution must comply with those
            conditions or restrictions.

 (4) Any power of the Authority under the Act referred to in
subsection (3)(b) to impose conditions or restrictions on the licence,
approval, authorisation, designation, recognition, registration, or
exemption is, despite anything to the contrary in that Act, deemed to
include the power to impose the conditions or restrictions referred to
in subsection (3)(b).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            85

Protection from personal liability

 37. No liability shall lie against any mediator, adjudicator or
employee of an operator of an approved dispute resolution scheme,
for doing or omitting to do any act, if the act is done or omitted to be
done with reasonable care and in good faith in the course of or in
connection with any mediation or adjudication of a dispute under the
approved dispute resolution scheme.

Regulations for this Part

 38.—(1) Regulations may be made under section 192 —

       (a) to provide for the matters that the Authority may have
            regard to in determining whether to approve a dispute
            resolution scheme under section 31(1);

       (b) to prescribe a list of dispute resolution schemes approved
            under section 31(1);

       (c) to provide for the suspension or cancellation of approvals
            under section 31(1);

       (d) to provide for the conditions for approval of a dispute
            resolution scheme including for matters relating to the
            constitution of the management of an operator of an
            approved dispute resolution scheme, and the operations of
            an operator of an approved dispute resolution scheme,
            including the standards or requirements of its operations,
            the fees that may be charged for its dispute resolution
            services, the records that must be kept, the period of
            retention of the records, the reports that are to be submitted
            to the Authority, the time for such submission, the terms of
            membership with the scheme, the procedure for dispute
            resolution and other matters relating to the administration
            of the scheme; and

       (e) to generally to give effect to or for carrying out the
            purposes of this Part.

 (2) Regulations made for the purposes of subsection (1) may
provide that any contravention of any specified provision of the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
86  NO. 18 OF 2022

regulations shall be an offence punishable (despite section 192(2)(d))
with a fine not exceeding $50,000.

                                    PART 7

          CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

                     Division 1 — General provisions

Application and interpretation of this Part

 39.—(1) This Part applies to, and in relation to, every relevant
financial institution.

 (2) In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “chief executive”, in relation to a relevant financial institution,
         means any person, by whatever name called, who —

              (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
                   arrangement with, the relevant financial institution;
                   and

              (b) is principally responsible for the management and
                   conduct of the business of the relevant financial
                   institution;

      “Court” means the General Division of the High Court;

      “director”, in relation to a relevant financial institution,
         includes —

              (a) any person, by whatever name called, occupying the
                   position of director of the relevant financial
                   institution;

              (b) a person in accordance with whose directions or
                   instructions the directors of the relevant financial
                   institution are accustomed to act; and

              (c) an alternate director, or a substitute director, of the
                   relevant financial institution;

      “executive officer”, in relation to a relevant financial institution,
         means any person, by whatever name called, who —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            87

              (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
                   arrangement with, the relevant financial institution;
                   and

              (b) is concerned with or takes part in the management of
                   the relevant financial institution on a day‑to‑day
                   basis;

      “pertinent financial institution” has the meaning given by
         section 58;

      “relevant financial institution” means a financial institution
         that —

              (a) is approved by the Authority under section 4; and

              (b) belongs to a class of financial institutions that is
                   prescribed by regulations made under section 192 for
                   the purposes of this definition.

 (3) In this subsection and sections 41 to 45, unless the context
otherwise requires —

      “business” includes affairs and property;

      “office-holder”, in relation to a relevant financial institution,
         means any person acting as the liquidator, the provisional
         liquidator, the receiver or the receiver and manager of the
         relevant financial institution, or acting in an equivalent
         capacity in relation to the relevant financial institution;

      “relevant business” means any business of a relevant financial
         institution —

              (a) which the Authority has assumed control of under
                   section 41; or

              (b) in relation to which a statutory adviser or a statutory
                   manager has been appointed under section 41;

      “statutory adviser” means a statutory adviser appointed under
         section 41;

      “statutory manager” means a statutory manager appointed under
         section 41.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
88  NO. 18 OF 2022

 (4) In this subsection and sections 46 and 47, unless the context
otherwise requires —

      “business” includes affairs, property, right, obligation and
         liability;

      “debenture” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
         Companies Act 1967;

      “property” includes property, right and power of every
         description;

      “Registrar of Companies” means the Registrar of Companies
         appointed under the Companies Act 1967 and includes any
         Deputy or Assistant Registrar of Companies appointed under
         that Act;

      “significant business”, in relation to a relevant financial
         institution, means the usual business of a financial
         institution belonging to the same class of financial
         institutions as that relevant financial institution;

      “transferee” means any person (being a person who is, or who
         has applied or will be applying to be, approved, authorised,
         designated, recognised, registered, licensed or otherwise
         regulated by the Authority, under this Act or any other MAS
         scheduled Act, to carry on the significant business of the
         transferor) to which the whole or any part of a transferor’s
         business is, is to be, or is proposed to be transferred under
         section 46(1);

      “transferor” means a relevant financial institution the whole or
         any part of the business of which is, is to be, or is proposed to
         be transferred under section 46(1).

Information of insolvency, etc.

 40.—(1) Any relevant financial institution which is or is likely to
become insolvent, which is or is likely to become unable to meet its
obligations, or which has suspended or is about to suspend payments,
must immediately inform the Authority of that fact.

 (2) A relevant financial institution that contravenes subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            89

not exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

Action by Authority if relevant financial institution unable to
meet obligations, etc.

 41.—(1) The Authority may exercise any one or more of the
powers specified in subsection (2) as appears to it to be necessary,
where —

       (a) a relevant financial institution informs the Authority that it
            is or is likely to become insolvent, or that it is or is likely to
            become unable to meet its obligations, or that it has
            suspended or is about to suspend payments;

       (b) a relevant financial institution becomes unable to meet its
            obligations, or is insolvent, or suspends payments;

       (c) the Authority is of the opinion that a relevant financial
            institution —

               (i) is carrying on its business in a manner likely to be
                   detrimental to the interests of such persons as may be
                   prescribed by regulations made under section 192 in
                   relation to the relevant financial institution;

              (ii) is or is likely to become insolvent, or is or is likely to
                   become unable to meet its obligations, or is about to
                   suspend payments;

             (iii) has contravened any of the provisions of this Act; or

             (iv) has failed to comply with any condition attached to
                   its approval under section 4; or

       (d) the Authority considers it in the public interest to do so.

 (2) Subject to subsections (1) and (3), the Authority may —

       (a) require the relevant financial institution immediately to
            take any action or to do or not to do any act or thing
            whatsoever in relation to its business as the Authority may
            consider necessary;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
90  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (b) appoint one or more persons as statutory adviser, on such
            terms and conditions as the Authority may specify, to
            advise the relevant financial institution on the proper
            management of such of the business of the relevant
            financial institution as the Authority may determine; or

       (c) assume control of and manage such of the business of the
            relevant financial institution as the Authority may
            determine, or appoint one or more persons as statutory
            manager to do so on such terms and conditions as the
            Authority may specify.

 (3) In the case of a relevant financial institution incorporated
outside Singapore, any appointment of a statutory adviser or statutory
manager or any assumption of control by the Authority of any
business of the relevant financial institution under subsection (2)
must only be in relation to —

       (a) the business or affairs of the relevant financial institution
            carried on in, or managed in or from, Singapore; or

       (b) the property of the relevant financial institution located in
            Singapore or reflected in the books of the relevant financial
            institution in Singapore (as the case may be) in relation to
            its operations in Singapore.

 (4) Where the Authority appoints 2 or more persons as the statutory
manager of a relevant financial institution, the Authority must
specify, in the terms and conditions of the appointment, which of the
duties, functions and powers of the statutory manager —

       (a) may be discharged or exercised by such persons jointly and
            severally;

       (b) must be discharged or exercised by such persons jointly;
            and

       (c) must be discharged or exercised by a specified person or
            such persons.

 (5) Where the Authority has exercised any power under
subsection (2), the Authority may, at any time and without

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            91

affecting its power under section 4(5)(c) and (d), do one or more of
the following:

       (a) vary or revoke any requirement of, any appointment made
            by or any action taken by the Authority in the exercise of
            such power, on such terms and conditions as the Authority
            may specify;

       (b) further exercise any of the powers under subsection (2);

       (c) add to, vary or revoke any term or condition specified by
            the Authority under this section.

 (6) No liability shall be incurred by a statutory manager or a
statutory adviser for anything done (including any statement made) or
omitted to be done with reasonable care and in good faith in the
course of or in connection with —

       (a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
            Act;

       (b) the performance or purported performance of any function
            or duty under this Act; or

       (c) the compliance or purported compliance with this Act.

 (7) A relevant financial institution that fails to comply with a
requirement imposed by the Authority under subsection (2)(a) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $125,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

Effect of assumption of control under section 41

 42.—(1) Upon assuming control of the relevant business of a
relevant financial institution, the Authority or statutory manager (as
the case may be) must take custody or control of the relevant
business.

 (2) During the period when the Authority or statutory manager is in
control of the relevant business of a relevant financial institution, the
Authority or statutory manager —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
92  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (a) must manage the relevant business of the relevant financial
            institution in the name of and on behalf of the relevant
            financial institution; and

       (b) is treated as an agent of the relevant financial institution.

 (3) In managing the relevant business of a relevant financial
institution, the Authority or statutory manager —

       (a) must take into consideration the interests of such persons
            as may be prescribed by regulations made under
            section 192 in relation to the relevant financial
            institution; and

       (b) has all the duties, powers and functions of the members of
            the board of directors of the relevant financial institution
            (collectively and individually) under this Act, the
            Companies Act 1967 and the constitution of the relevant
            financial institution, including powers of delegation, in
            relation to the relevant business of the relevant financial
            institution; but nothing in this paragraph requires the
            Authority or statutory manager to call any meeting of the
            relevant financial institution under the Companies
            Act 1967 or the constitution of the relevant financial
            institution.

 (4) Despite any written law or rule of law, upon the assumption of
control of the relevant business of a relevant financial institution by
the Authority or statutory manager —

       (a) where the relevant financial institution is established or
            incorporated in Singapore, any appointment of a person as
            the chief executive or a director of the relevant financial
            institution which was in force immediately before the
            assumption of control; or

       (b) where the relevant financial institution is established or
            incorporated outside Singapore, any appointment of a
            person as the chief executive of the relevant financial
            institution (insofar as the appointment relates to the
            relevant business of the relevant financial institution)

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            93

            which was in force immediately before the assumption of
            control,

is treated as having been revoked, unless the Authority gives its
approval, by written notice to the person and the relevant financial
institution, for the person to remain in the appointment.

 (5) Despite any written law or rule of law, during the period when
the Authority or statutory manager is in control of the relevant
business of a relevant financial institution, except with the approval
of the Authority, a person may not be appointed —

       (a) where the relevant financial institution is established or
            incorporated in Singapore, as the chief executive or a
            director of the relevant financial institution; or

       (b) where the relevant financial institution is established or
            incorporated outside Singapore, as the chief executive of
            the relevant financial institution (insofar as the
            appointment relates to the relevant business of the
            relevant financial institution).

 (6) Where the Authority has given its approval under subsection (4)
or (5) to a person to remain in the appointment of, or to be appointed
as, the chief executive or a director of a relevant financial institution,
the Authority may at any time, by written notice to the person and the
relevant financial institution, revoke that approval, and the
appointment is treated as having been revoked on the date
specified in the notice.

 (7) Despite any written law or rule of law, if any person, whose
appointment as the chief executive or a director of a relevant financial
institution is revoked under subsection (4) or (6), acts or purports to
act after the revocation —

       (a) where the relevant financial institution is established or
            incorporated in Singapore, as the chief executive or a
            director of the relevant financial institution; or

       (b) where the relevant financial institution is established or
            incorporated outside Singapore, as the chief executive of
            the relevant financial institution in relation to the relevant
            business of the relevant financial institution,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
94  NO. 18 OF 2022

during the period when the Authority or statutory manager is in
control of the relevant business of the relevant financial institution —

       (c) the act or purported act of the person is invalid and of no
            effect; and

       (d) the person shall be guilty of an offence.

 (8) Despite any written law or rule of law, if any person who is
appointed as the chief executive or a director of a relevant financial
institution in contravention of subsection (5) acts or purports to act —

       (a) where the relevant financial institution is established or
            incorporated in Singapore, as the chief executive or a
            director of the relevant financial institution; or

       (b) where the relevant financial institution is established or
            incorporated outside Singapore, as the chief executive of
            the relevant financial institution in relation to the relevant
            business of the relevant financial institution,

during the period when the Authority or statutory manager is in
control of the relevant business of the relevant financial institution —

       (c) the act or purported act of the person is invalid and of no
            effect; and

       (d) the person shall be guilty of an offence.

 (9) During the period when the Authority or statutory manager is in
control of the relevant business of a relevant financial institution —

       (a) if there is any conflict or inconsistency between —

               (i) a direction or decision given by the Authority or
                   statutory manager (including a direction or decision
                   to a person or body of persons referred to in
                   sub‑paragraph (ii)); and

              (ii) a direction or decision given by any chief executive,
                   director, member, executive officer, employee, agent
                   or office‑holder, or the board of directors, of the
                   relevant financial institution,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            95

       (a) the direction or decision referred to in sub‑paragraph (i), to
            the extent of the conflict or inconsistency, prevails over the
            direction or decision referred to in sub‑paragraph (ii); and

       (b) no person may exercise any voting or other right attached
            to any share in the relevant financial institution in any
            manner that may defeat or interfere with any duty, function
            or power of the Authority or statutory manager, and any
            such act or purported act is invalid and of no effect.

 (10) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (7) or
(8) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $125,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $12,500
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (11) In this section, “constitution”, in relation to a relevant financial
institution, means the memorandum of association and articles of
association of the relevant financial institution, or any other
instrument under which the relevant financial institution is
established or incorporated.

Duration of control

 43.—(1) The Authority must cease to control the relevant business
of a relevant financial institution when the Authority is satisfied
that —

       (a) the reasons for the Authority’s assumption of control of the
            relevant business have ceased to exist; or

       (b) it is no longer necessary for the protection of the persons
            prescribed by regulations made under section 192 for the
            purposes of section 41(1)(c)(i) in relation to the relevant
            financial institution.

 (2) A statutory manager is treated as having assumed control of the
relevant business of a relevant financial institution on the date of the
statutory manager’s appointment as a statutory manager.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
96  NO. 18 OF 2022

 (3) The appointment of a statutory manager in relation to the
relevant business of a relevant financial institution may be revoked by
the Authority at any time —

       (a) if the Authority is satisfied that —

               (i) the reasons for the appointment have ceased to exist;
                   or

              (ii) it is no longer necessary for the protection of the
                   persons prescribed by regulations made under
                   section 192 for the purposes of section 41(1)(c)(i)
                   in relation to the relevant financial institution; or

       (b) on any other ground,

and upon such revocation, the statutory manager must cease to
control the relevant business of the relevant financial institution.

 (4) The Authority must, as soon as practicable, publish in the
Gazette the date, and such other particulars as the Authority thinks fit,
of —

       (a) the Authority’s assumption of control of the relevant
            business of a relevant financial institution;

       (b) the cessation of the Authority’s control of the relevant
            business of a relevant financial institution;

       (c) the appointment of a statutory manager in relation to the
            relevant business of a relevant financial institution; and

       (d) the revocation of a statutory manager’s appointment in
            relation to the relevant business of a relevant financial
            institution.

Responsibilities of officers, member, etc., of relevant financial
institution

 44.—(1) During the period when the Authority or statutory
manager is in control of the relevant business of a relevant
financial institution —

       (a) the Court may, on an application by the Authority or
            statutory manager, direct any person who has ceased to be

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            97

            or who is still any chief executive, director, member,
            executive officer, employee, agent, banker, auditor or
            office-holder of, or trustee for, the relevant financial
            institution to pay, deliver, convey, surrender or transfer
            to the Authority or statutory manager, within such period
            as the Court may specify, any property, book, accounts,
            record or other documents, whether in electronic, print or
            other form, of the relevant financial institution which is
            comprised in, forms part of or relates to the relevant
            business of the relevant financial institution, and which is
            in the person’s possession or control; and

       (b) any person who has ceased to be or who is still any chief
            executive, director, member, executive officer, employee,
            agent, banker, auditor or office‑holder of, or trustee for, the
            relevant financial institution must give to the Authority or
            statutory manager such information as the Authority or
            statutory manager may require for the discharge of the
            Authority’s or statutory manager’s duties or functions, or
            the exercise of the Authority’s or statutory manager’s
            powers, in relation to the relevant financial institution,
            within such time and in such manner as may be specified
            by the Authority or statutory manager.

 (2) A person who —

       (a) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
            subsection (1)(b); or

       (b) in purported compliance with subsection (1)(b), knowingly
            or recklessly provides any information or document that is
            false or misleading in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
98  NO. 18 OF 2022

Remuneration and expenses of Authority and others in certain
cases

 45. The Authority may at any time fix the remuneration and
expenses to be paid by a relevant financial institution —

       (a) to a statutory manager or statutory adviser appointed in
            relation to the relevant financial institution, whether or not
            the appointment has been revoked; and

       (b) where the Authority has assumed control of the relevant
            business of the relevant financial institution, to the
            Authority and any person appointed by the Authority
            under section 179 in relation to the Authority’s assumption
            of control of the relevant business, whether or not the
            Authority has ceased to be in control of the relevant
            business.

Voluntary transfer of business of relevant financial institution

 46.—(1) A transferor may transfer the whole or any part of its
business (including any business that is not the significant business of
the transferor) to a transferee, if —

       (a) where the transferor is incorporated in Singapore, the
            Authority has consented to the transfer;

       (b) where the transferor is incorporated outside Singapore, the
            business to be transferred is reflected in the books of the
            transferor in Singapore in relation to its operations in
            Singapore;

       (c) the transfer involves the whole or any part of the business
            of the transferor that is the significant business of the
            transferor; and

       (d) the Court has approved the transfer.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not affect the right of a relevant financial
institution to transfer the whole or any part of the relevant financial
institution’s business under any law.

 (3) The Authority may consent to a transfer under subsection (1)(a)
if the Authority is satisfied that —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            99

       (a) the transferee is a fit and proper person under the
            Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria; and

       (b) the transferee will conduct the business of the transferor
            prudently and comply with the provisions of this Act.

 (4) The Authority may at any time appoint one or more persons to
perform an independent assessment of, and provide a report on, the
proposed transfer of a transferor’s business (or any part of the
business) under subsection (1), whether the transferor is incorporated
in or outside Singapore.

 (5) The remuneration and expenses of any person appointed under
subsection (4) must be paid by the transferor and the transferee jointly
and severally.

 (6) The Authority must serve a copy of any report provided under
subsection (4) on the transferor and the transferee.

 (7) The Authority may require a person to provide, within the
period and in the manner specified by the Authority, any information
or document that the Authority may reasonably require for the
discharge of the Authority’s duties or functions, or the exercise of the
Authority’s powers, under this section and section 47.

 (8) A person who —

       (a) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with any
            requirement under subsection (7); or

       (b) in purported compliance with any requirement under
            subsection (7), knowingly or recklessly provides any
            information or document that is false or misleading in a
            material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

 (9) Where a person claims, before providing the Authority with any
information or document that the person is required to provide under
subsection (7), that the information or document might tend to

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
100  NO. 18 OF 2022

incriminate the person, the information or document is not admissible
in evidence against the person in criminal proceedings other than
proceedings under subsection (8).

Approval of transfer of business of relevant financial
institution

 47.—(1) A transferor must apply to the Court for its approval of the
transfer of the whole or any part of the business of the transferor to the
transferee under section 46(1).

 (2) Before making an application under subsection (1) —

       (a) the transferor must lodge with the Authority a report
            setting out such details of the transfer and provide such
            supporting documents as the Authority may specify;

       (b) where the transferor is incorporated in Singapore, the
            transferor must obtain the Authority’s consent under
            section 46(1)(a);

       (c) the transferor and the transferee must, if they intend to
            serve on their respective customers a summary of the
            transfer, obtain the Authority’s approval of the summary;

       (d) the transferor must, at least 15 days before the application
            is made but not earlier than one month after the report
            mentioned in paragraph (a) is lodged with the Authority,
            publish in the Gazette and in such newspaper or
            newspapers as the Authority may determine a notice of
            the transferor’s intention to make the application and
            containing such other particulars as may be prescribed by
            regulations made under section 192;

       (e) the transferor and the transferee must keep at their
            respective offices in Singapore, for inspection by any
            person who may be affected by the transfer, a copy of the
            report mentioned in paragraph (a) for a period of 15 days
            after the publication of the notice mentioned in
            paragraph (d) in the Gazette; and

        (f) unless the Court directs otherwise, the transferor and the
            transferee must serve on their respective customers

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            101

            affected by the transfer, at least 15 days before the
            application is made, a copy of the report mentioned in
            paragraph (a) or a summary of the transfer approved by the
            Authority under paragraph (c).

 (3) The Authority and any person who, in the opinion of the Court,
is likely to be affected by the transfer —

       (a) have the right to appear before and be heard by the Court in
            any proceedings relating to the transfer; and

       (b) may make any application to the Court in relation to the
            transfer.

 (4) Where the transferor is incorporated in Singapore, the Court
must not approve the transfer if the Authority has not consented to the
transfer under section 46(1)(a).

 (5) The Court may, after taking into consideration the views, if any,
of the Authority on the transfer —

       (a) approve the transfer without modification or subject to any
            modification agreed to by the transferor and the transferee;
            or

       (b) refuse to approve the transfer.

 (6) Where the transferee is not approved, authorised, designated,
recognised, registered, licensed or otherwise regulated by the
Authority under this Act or any other MAS scheduled Act, to carry
on in Singapore the significant business of the transferor, the Court
may approve the transfer on terms that the transfer is to take effect
only in the event of the transferee becoming so approved, authorised,
designated, recognised, registered, licensed or regulated, as the case
may be.

 (7) The Court may, by the order approving the transfer or by any
subsequent order, provide for all or any of the following matters:

       (a) the transfer to the transferee of the whole or any part of the
            business of the transferor;

       (b) the allotment or appropriation by the transferee of any
            share, debenture, policy or other interest in the transferee

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
102  NO. 18 OF 2022

            which under the transfer is to be allotted or appropriated by
            the transferee to or for any person;

       (c) the continuation by (or against) the transferee of any legal
            proceedings pending by (or against) the transferor;

       (d) the dissolution, without winding up, of the transferor;

       (e) the provisions to be made for persons who are affected by
            the transfer;

        (f) such incidental, consequential and supplementary matters
            as are, in the opinion of the Court, necessary to secure that
            the transfer is fully effective.

 (8) Any order under subsection (7) may —

       (a) provide for the transfer of any business, whether or not the
            transferor otherwise has the capacity to effect the transfer
            in question;

       (b) make provision in relation to any property which is held by
            the transferor as trustee; and

       (c) make provision as to any future or contingent right or
            liability of the transferor, including provision as to the
            construction of any instrument under which any such right
            or liability may arise.

 (9) Subject to subsection (10), where an order made under
subsection (7) provides for the transfer to the transferee of the
whole or any part of the transferor’s business, then by virtue of the
order the business (or part of the business) of the transferor specified
in the order must be transferred to and vest in the transferee, free in
the case of any particular property (if the order so directs) from any
charge which by virtue of the transfer is to cease to have effect.

 (10) No order under subsection (7) has any effect or operation in
transferring or otherwise vesting land in Singapore until the
appropriate entries are made with respect to the transfer or vesting
of that land by the appropriate authority.

 (11) If any business specified in an order under subsection (7) is
governed by the law of any foreign country or territory, the Court may
order the transferor to take all necessary steps for securing that the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            103

transfer of the business to the transferee is fully effective under the
law of that country or territory.

 (12) Where an order is made under this section, the transferor and
the transferee must each lodge within 7 days after the order is
made —

       (a) a copy of the order with the Registrar of Companies and
            with the Authority; and

       (b) where the order relates to land in Singapore, an office copy
            of the order with the appropriate authority concerned with
            the registration or recording of dealings in that land.

 (13) A transferor or transferee that contravenes subsection (12), and
every officer of the transferor or transferee (as the case may be) who
fails to take all reasonable steps to secure compliance by the
transferor or transferee (as the case may be) with that subsection,
shall each be guilty of an offence and shall each be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $200 for every day
or part of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (14) In subsection (13), “officer”, in relation to a transferor or
transferee, includes —

       (a) a director, a secretary or an executive officer of the
            transferor or transferee, as the case may be;

       (b) a receiver or manager of any part of the undertaking of the
            transferor or transferee (as the case may be) appointed
            under a power contained in any instrument; and

       (c) a liquidator of the transferor or transferee (as the case may
            be) appointed in a voluntary winding up.

Disqualification or removal of director or executive officer of
relevant financial institution

 48.—(1) Despite the provisions of any other written law —

       (a) a relevant financial institution must not, without the prior
            written consent of the Authority, permit a person to act as
            its executive officer; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
104  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (b) a relevant financial institution which is established or
            incorporated in Singapore must not, without the prior
            written consent of the Authority, permit a person to act as
            its director,

if the person —

       (c) has been convicted, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, of
            an offence committed before, on or after the date of
            commencement of this Part, being an offence —

               (i) involving fraud or dishonesty;

              (ii) the conviction for which involved a finding that he or
                   she had acted fraudulently or dishonestly; or

             (iii) that is specified in the Third Schedule to the
                   Registration of Criminals Act 1949;

       (d) is an undischarged bankrupt, whether in Singapore or
            elsewhere;

       (e) has had an enforcement order against him or her in respect
            of a judgment debt returned unsatisfied in whole or in part;

        (f) has, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, entered into a
            compromise or scheme of arrangement with his or her
            creditors, being a compromise or scheme of arrangement
            that is still in operation;

       (g) has in force against him or her a prohibition order; or

       (h) has been a director of, or directly concerned in the
            management of, a regulated financial institution, whether
            in Singapore or elsewhere —

               (i) which is being or has been wound up by a court; or

              (ii) the approval, authorisation, designation, recognition,
                   registration or licence of which has been withdrawn,
                   cancelled or revoked by the Authority or, in the case
                   of a regulated financial institution in a foreign
                   country or territory, by the regulatory authority in
                   that foreign country or territory.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            105

 (2) Despite the provisions of any other written law, where the
Authority is satisfied that a director of a relevant financial institution
which is established or incorporated in Singapore, or an executive
officer of a relevant financial institution —

       (a) has wilfully contravened or wilfully caused the relevant
            financial institution to contravene any provision of this
            Act;

       (b) has, without reasonable excuse, failed to secure the
            compliance of the relevant financial institution with this
            Act or any other MAS scheduled Act; or

       (c) has failed to discharge any of the duties of his or her office,

the Authority may, if the Authority thinks it necessary in the public
interest or for the protection of such persons as may be prescribed by
regulations made under section 192 for the purposes of this
subsection in relation to the relevant financial institution, by
written notice to the relevant financial institution, direct the
relevant financial institution to remove the director or executive
officer (as the case may be) from his or her office or employment
within such period as may be specified by the Authority in the notice,
and the relevant financial institution must comply with the notice.

 (3) Without affecting any other matter that the Authority may
consider relevant, the Authority must, when determining whether a
director or an executive officer of a relevant financial institution has
failed to discharge the duties of his or her office for the purposes of
subsection (2)(c), have regard to such criteria as may be prescribed by
regulations made under section 192.

 (4) Before directing a relevant financial institution to remove a
person from his or her office or employment under subsection (2), the
Authority must —

       (a) give the relevant financial institution and the person
            written notice of the Authority’s intention to do so; and

       (b) in the notice mentioned in paragraph (a), call upon the
            relevant financial institution and the person to show cause,
            within such time as may be specified in the notice, why the
            person should not be removed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
106  NO. 18 OF 2022

 (5) If the relevant financial institution and the person mentioned in
subsection (4) —

       (a) fail to show cause within the time specified under
            subsection (4)(b) or within such extended period of time
            as the Authority may allow; or

       (b) fail to show sufficient cause,

the Authority may direct the relevant financial institution to remove
the person under subsection (2).

 (6) Any relevant financial institution which, or any director or
executive officer of a relevant financial institution who, is aggrieved
by a direction of the Authority under subsection (2) may, within
30 days after receiving the direction, appeal in writing to the Minister,
whose decision is final.

 (7) A relevant financial institution that contravenes subsection (1)
or fails to comply with a notice issued under subsection (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (8) No civil or criminal liability is incurred by a relevant financial
institution, or any person acting on behalf of the relevant financial
institution, in respect of anything done (including any statement
made) or omitted to be done with reasonable care and in good faith in
the discharge or purported discharge of the obligations of the relevant
financial institution under this section.

 (9) In this section —

      “prohibition order” means —

              (a) a prohibition order made under section 68(1) of the
                   Financial Advisers Act 2001 as in force immediately
                   before the date of commencement of
                   section 200(1)(b) and (2) to (7) of this Act;

              (b) a prohibition order made under section 68(1) of the
                   Financial Advisers Act 2001 as in force immediately
                   before the date of commencement of

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            107

                   section 200(1)(b) and (2) to (7) of this Act, and as
                   continued by section 217(2) of this Act;

              (c) an order made under section 74(1) of the Insurance
                   Act 1966 as in force immediately before the date of
                   commencement of section 204(1) to (4) of this Act;

              (d) an order made under section 74(1) of the Insurance
                   Act 1966 as in force immediately before the date of
                   commencement of section 204(1) to (4) of this Act,
                   and as continued by section 218(2) of this Act;

              (e) a prohibition order made under section 101A(1) of
                   the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force
                   immediately before the date of commencement of
                   section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and
                   (18) of this Act;

              (f) a prohibition order made under section 101A(1) of
                   the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force
                   immediately before the date of commencement of
                   section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and
                   (18) of this Act, and as continued by section 220(3) of
                   this Act; or

              (g) a prohibition order made under section 7(1) of this
                   Act;

      “regulated financial institution” means a person who carries on a
         business, the conduct of which is regulated or authorised by
         the Authority or, if it is carried on in Singapore, would be
         regulated or authorised by the Authority;

      “regulatory authority”, in relation to a foreign country or
         territory, means an authority of the foreign country or
         territory exercising any function that corresponds to a
         regulatory function of the Authority under this Act or any
         other MAS scheduled Act.

Provisions as to compromise or arrangement relating to certain
financial institutions, etc.

 49.—(1) This section applies despite any other written law.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
108  NO. 18 OF 2022

 (2) In any proceedings under section 210 of the Companies
Act 1967 or section 71 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to a company that is a Type A
financial institution, the Authority —

       (a) has the same powers and rights as a creditor of the
            company under the Companies Act 1967 or the Insolvency,
            Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 respectively
            (including the right to appear and be heard before the
            Court in any proceedings under those provisions); but

       (b) does not have the right to vote at any meeting summoned
            under section 210 of the Companies Act 1967.

 (3) In the case of a company that is a Type B financial institution,
the Court must not —

       (a) approve under section 210 of the Companies Act 1967 or
            section 71 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
            Act 2018 any compromise or arrangement that has been
            proposed for the purposes of or in connection with any
            scheme mentioned in section 212(1) of the Companies
            Act 1967 under which the whole or any part of the
            undertaking or the property of the company is to be
            transferred; or

       (b) without affecting paragraph (a), make any order under
            section 212(1) of the Companies Act 1967 providing for
            the transfer of the whole or any part of the undertaking or
            the property of the company,

unless the Minister has consented to such compromise or
arrangement or such transfer (as the case may be) or has certified
that the Minister’s consent is not required.

 (4) In the case of a company that is a Type C financial institution,
the Court must not —

       (a) approve under section 210 of the Companies Act 1967 or
            section 71 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
            Act 2018 any compromise or arrangement that has been
            proposed for the purposes of or in connection with any
            scheme mentioned in section 212(1) of the Companies

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            109

            Act 1967 under which the whole or any part of the
            undertaking or the property of the company is to be
            transferred; or

       (b) without affecting paragraph (a), make any order under
            section 212(1) of the Companies Act 1967 providing for
            the transfer of the whole or any part of the undertaking or
            the property of the company,

unless the Authority has consented to such compromise or
arrangement or such transfer (as the case may be) or has certified
that the Authority’s consent is not required.

 (5) In this section —

      “company” means any corporation liable to be wound up under
         the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018;

      “Type A financial institution” means a financial institution or
         class of financial institutions that is prescribed by regulations
         made under section 192 as a Type A financial institution for
         the purposes of this section;

      “Type B financial institution” means a financial institution or
         class of financial institutions that is prescribed by regulations
         made under section 192 as a Type B financial institution for
         the purposes of this section;

      “Type C financial institution” means a financial institution or
         class of financial institutions that is prescribed by regulations
         made under section 192 as a Type C financial institution for
         the purposes of this section.

Regulations for this Part

 50. Regulations made under section 192 for this Part may
prescribe —

       (a) that any contravention of a provision of the regulations
            shall be an offence punishable (despite
            section 192(2)(d)) —

               (i) in the case of an individual, with a fine not exceeding
                   $125,000 or with imprisonment for a term not

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
110  NO. 18 OF 2022

                 exceeding 3 years or with both and, in the case of a
                 continuing offence, with a further fine not exceeding
                 $12,500 for every day or part of a day during which
                 the offence continues after conviction; or

           (ii) in any other case, with a fine not exceeding $250,000
                 and, in the case of a continuing offence, with a
                 further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every day or
                 part of a day during which the offence continues after
                 conviction; and

     (b) for the purposes of sections 41(1)(c)(i) and 42(3)(a),
          different persons and different classes of persons in
          relation to different relevant financial institutions and
          different classes of relevant financial institutions.

            Division 2 — Recovery and resolution planning

Notice concerning recovery and resolution plans

 51.—(1) The Authority may issue a notice to pertinent financial
institutions requiring each pertinent financial institution to which a
direction is issued under section 52(1) —

       (a) to prepare, in the form and manner and containing the
            information specified in the notice, a plan to restore the
            financial strength and viability of the pertinent financial
            institution in the event it suffers financial pressure or stress
            (called in this section and section 52 a recovery plan);

       (b) to review and keep up-to-date its recovery plan, at a
            frequency specified in the direction;

       (c) to adopt various procedures in preparing its recovery plan,
            including the oversight of the process and endorsement of
            the plan;

       (d) to notify the Authority of the occurrence of any event that
            may necessitate the implementation of its recovery plan;

       (e) to maintain information to enable the pertinent financial
            institution to prepare, review and keep up‑to‑date its

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            111

            recovery plan, and to comply with any direction of the
            Authority under section 53;

        (f) to have in place a management information system that is
            necessary for the maintenance and production of the
            information mentioned in paragraph (e);

       (g) to ensure that the pertinent financial institution’s
            outsourcing arrangements for its critical functions and
            critical shared services will continue in the event it comes
            under resolution; and

       (h) to take such other action as in the Authority’s opinion will
            facilitate compliance with any notice or direction issued by
            the Authority under this Division, or the effective
            implementation of the recovery plan of the pertinent
            financial institution or a plan of the Authority under
            section 53.

 (2) A notice under this section may make different provisions for
different classes of pertinent financial institutions.

Direction for recovery plan and its implementation

 52.—(1) The Authority may issue a direction to a pertinent
financial institution —

       (a) requiring the pertinent financial institution to comply with
            the requirements of a notice issued under section 51; and

       (b) specifying the dates for the submission of the recovery plan
            and the submission of any other document, and the
            frequency for the action mentioned in section 51(1)(b).

 (2) The Authority may issue a further direction to a pertinent
financial institution to which a direction was issued under
subsection (1) —

       (a) to make such amendment to the pertinent financial
            institution’s recovery plan as the Authority may
            reasonably require, including an amendment to address
            any deficiency in the plan; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
112  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (b) to remove any impediment to the implementation of the
            recovery plan.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (2)(b), the direction in that
provision may require the pertinent financial institution to make
changes to its practices, organisation and structure (including its
operational, legal and financial structures).

 (4) The Authority may issue a further direction to a pertinent
financial institution to which a direction was issued under
subsection (1) —

       (a) to implement a specified part of the pertinent financial
            institution’s recovery plan; and

       (b) to implement such other arrangements or measures as may
            be necessary to restore the pertinent financial institution’s
            financial strength and viability.

Resolution planning

 53. The Authority may prepare plans for the orderly resolution of a
pertinent financial institution, and may for that purpose issue a
direction to the pertinent financial institution requiring the pertinent
financial institution to provide, within the time and in the form and
manner set out in the direction, any information or document that the
Authority may reasonably require for that purpose.

Power to direct removal of impediments

 54.—(1) This section applies if the Authority is of the opinion that
an impediment exists to the orderly resolution of a pertinent financial
institution in accordance with a plan of the Authority under
section 53.

 (2) The Authority may issue a direction to the pertinent financial
institution, requiring the pertinent financial institution to take, within
the time specified in the direction, measures specified in the direction
for the purpose of addressing or removing the impediment.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (2), the direction may require the
pertinent financial institution to make changes to its practices,

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            113

organisation and structure (including its operational, legal and
financial structures).

Appeal against direction to remove impediment

 55.—(1) A pertinent financial institution that is aggrieved by a
direction issued to it under section 52(2)(b) or 54(2) may, within
30 days after receiving the direction, appeal to the Minister whose
decision is final.

 (2) An appeal may only be made if the direction requires the
pertinent financial institution to make a change that will significantly
affect its practices, organisation or operations.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), a change will significantly
affect the practices, organisation or operations of a pertinent financial
institution if it —

       (a) changes any part of its legal or financial structure; or

       (b) satisfies such other criterion as may be prescribed by the
            Minister under section 191.

 (4) If an appeal is lodged, the pertinent financial institution need not
comply with the direction until the appeal is determined.

 (5) The Minister may determine an appeal by confirming, varying
or reversing the direction.

 (6) If the Minister is satisfied that an appeal is made without
reasonable ground, the Minister may, without calling for a reply from
the Authority, but after giving the pertinent financial institution an
opportunity to be heard, determine the appeal by confirming the
direction.

Provisions concerning directions and notices under this
Division

 56.—(1) A direction or notice under this Division must be in
writing.

 (2) It is not necessary to publish a direction or notice under this
Division in the Gazette.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
114  NO. 18 OF 2022

Offences under this Division

 57.—(1) A pertinent financial institution that does not comply with
a direction or notice of the Authority under this Division shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (2) A pertinent financial institution that, in purported compliance
with a direction or notice under this Division, knowingly or
recklessly provides to the Authority any information or document
that is false or misleading in a material particular, shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$250,000.

                                    PART 8

          RESOLUTION OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

                     Division 1 — General provisions

Interpretation of this Part

 58. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “affected person”, in relation to a specified financial institution,
         means any person prescribed by regulations made under
         section 135 as an affected person for that specified financial
         institution;

      “business” includes affairs and property;

      “co-operative society” means a co-operative society registered
         under the Co-operative Societies Act 1979;

      “Court” means the General Division of the High Court;

      “director”, in relation to a specified financial institution or a
         significant associated entity referred to in section 130,
         includes —

              (a) any person, by whatever name called, occupying the
                   position of director of the specified financial

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            115

             institution or significant associated entity, as the case
             may be;

        (b) a person in accordance with whose directions or
             instructions the directors of the specified financial
             institution or significant associated entity (as the case
             may be) are accustomed to act; and

        (c) an alternate director, or a substitute director, of the
             specified financial institution or significant
             associated entity, as the case may be;

“excluded financial institution” means any person who is
   approved, authorised, designated, recognised, registered,
   licensed or otherwise regulated by the Authority under this
   Act or any other MAS scheduled Act, and is prescribed by
   regulations made under section 135 as an excluded financial
   institution;

“executive officer”, in relation to a specified financial institution
   or a significant associated entity referred to in section 130,
   means any person, by whatever name called, who —

        (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
             arrangement with, the specified financial institution
             or significant associated entity, as the case may be;
             and

        (b) is concerned with or takes part in the management of
             the specified financial institution or significant
             associated entity (as the case may be) on a
             day‑to‑day basis;

“office-holder”, in relation to a specified financial institution,
   means any person acting as the liquidator, the provisional
   liquidator, the receiver or the receiver and manager of the
   specified financial institution, or acting in an equivalent
   capacity in relation to the specified financial institution;

“pertinent financial institution” means any person who is
   approved, authorised, designated, recognised, registered,
   licensed or otherwise regulated by the Authority under this
   Act or any other MAS scheduled Act, and is prescribed by

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
116  NO. 18 OF 2022

        regulations made under section 135 as a pertinent financial
        institution;

     “PPF Agency” means the company designated as the deposit
        insurance and policy owners’ protection fund agency under
        section 56 of the Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners’
        Protection Schemes Act 2011;

     “PPF Funds” means the Policy Owners’ Protection Life Fund
        and the Policy Owners’ Protection General Fund established
        under section 34 of the Deposit Insurance and Policy
        Owners’ Protection Schemes Act 2011;

     “Registrar of Companies” means the Registrar of Companies
        appointed under the Companies Act 1967 and includes any
        Deputy or Assistant Registrar of Companies appointed under
        that Act;

     “Registrar of Co-operative Societies” means the Registrar of
        Co‑operative Societies appointed under the Co‑operative
        Societies Act 1979 and includes any Assistant Registrar of
        Co‑operative Societies appointed under that Act;

     “relevant Act”, in relation to a specified financial institution,
        means the Act under which that specified financial institution
        is approved, authorised, designated, recognised, registered,
        licensed or otherwise regulated by the Authority;

     “relevant provisions”, in relation to any specified financial
        institution, or any person who is carrying on or has carried on
        the significant business of a specified financial institution,
        means such provisions of this Act or any other MAS
        scheduled Act as may be prescribed by regulations made
        under section 135 as relevant provisions for that specified
        financial institution or person, as the case may be;

     “significant business”, in relation to a specified financial
        institution, means the usual business of a financial
        institution belonging to the same class of financial
        institutions as that specified financial institution;

     “specified financial institution” means a pertinent financial
        institution or an excluded financial institution;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            117

      “Take-over Code” means the Singapore Code on Take‑overs and
         Mergers which is referred to in section 139 of the Securities
         and Futures Act 2001 and is issued by the Authority under
         section 321(1) of that Act.

Exercise of powers under Divisions 2, 4, 5 and 6 of this Part

 59. In determining whether to exercise its powers under
Divisions 2, 4, 5 and 6 of this Part in relation to a pertinent
financial institution, the Authority may have regard to one or more of
the following matters:

       (a) whether a failure of the pertinent financial institution
            would have a widespread adverse effect on the financial
            system in Singapore or the economy of Singapore, or both,
            whether or not that widespread adverse effect occurs
            directly or indirectly as a result of the impact of the failure
            on the financial system in Singapore, on the financial
            markets in Singapore or on other financial institutions in
            Singapore;

       (b) whether it is in the public interest to do so;

       (c) any other matter that the Authority considers relevant.

Directions or regulations concerning persons that have ceased
to be specified financial institutions

 60.—(1) The Authority may, from time to time, issue such
directions, or make such regulations under section 192, concerning
any person that has ceased to be a specified financial institution, or
any class of persons that has ceased to be a class of specified financial
institutions, as the Authority considers necessary —

       (a) in order to discharge, or to facilitate the discharge of, any
            binding obligation of the person or class of persons, as the
            case may be; or

       (b) where it is in the public interest to do so.

 (2) Subsection (1) applies, to a person that has ceased to be a
specified financial institution, regardless of whether the reason for the
cessation is one or more of the following matters:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
118  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (a) the withdrawal by the Authority of any approval,
            authorisation, designation or recognition of the person;

       (b) the cancellation by the Authority, or the expiration, of any
            registration of the person;

       (c) the revocation by the Authority, or the expiration, of any
            licence of the person;

       (d) the cessation of the regulation of the person by the
            Authority;

       (e) the cessation of any business of the person, being a
            business which is regulated under this Act or any other
            MAS scheduled Act.

 (3) A person to whom any direction is issued under subsection (1),
or to whom any regulations mentioned in that subsection apply, must
comply with the direction or regulations, despite any other duty
imposed on the person by any rule of law, written law or contract.

 (4) A person, in carrying out any act in compliance with any
direction issued or regulations mentioned in subsection (1), is not to
be treated as being in breach of any such rule of law, written law or
contract.

 (5) A person must not disclose any direction issued under
subsection (1) if the Authority notifies the person that the
Authority is of the opinion that the disclosure of the direction is
against the public interest.

 (6) A person who —

       (a) fails to comply with a direction issued to him or her under
            subsection (1);

       (b) contravenes any regulations mentioned in subsection (1);
            or

       (c) contravenes subsection (5),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $125,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            119

 (7) It is not necessary to publish any direction issued under
subsection (1) in the Gazette.

Directions and notices issued under this Act or other MAS
scheduled Act to continue to apply to persons who cease to be
specified financial institutions

 61.—(1) Where a person ceases to be a specified financial
institution, any direction or notice issued under this Act or any
other MAS scheduled Act (being a direction or notice which was in
force, and which applied to that person, immediately before that
person ceased to be a specified financial institution) despite any rule
of law or written law to the contrary, continues to apply to that person,
until that direction or notice is cancelled by the Authority.

 (2) Subsection (1) applies, to a person that has ceased to be a
specified financial institution, regardless of whether the reason for the
cessation is one or more of the following:

       (a) the withdrawal by the Authority of any approval,
            authorisation, designation or recognition of the person;

       (b) the cancellation by the Authority, or the expiration, of any
            registration of the person;

       (c) the revocation by the Authority, or the expiration, of any
            licence of the person;

       (d) the cessation of the regulation of the person by the
            Authority;

       (e) the cessation of any business of the person, being a
            business which is regulated under this Act or any other
            MAS scheduled Act.

 (3) A person referred to in subsection (1) who, after ceasing to be a
specified financial institution, fails to comply with a direction or
notice referred to in that subsection shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1 million and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding
$100,000 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
120  NO. 18 OF 2022

Moratorium

 62.—(1) The Authority may, if the Authority considers it to be in
the interests of the affected persons of a specified financial institution,
make an order prohibiting that specified financial institution from
carrying on its significant business or from doing or performing any
act or function connected with its significant business or any aspect of
its significant business that may be specified in the order.

 (2) The Authority may, if the Authority considers it to be in the
interests of the affected persons of a specified financial institution,
apply to the Court for, and the Court may make, one or more of the
following orders:

       (a) that no resolution may be passed, and no order may be
            made, for the winding up of the specified financial
            institution;

       (b) that no judicial manager may be appointed under Part 7 of
            the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
            relation to the specified financial institution, or that the
            specified financial institution be discharged from judicial
            management;

       (c) that no proceedings may be commenced or continued by or
            against the specified financial institution in respect of any
            business of the specified financial institution;

       (d) that no enforcement order, distress or other legal process
            may be commenced, levied or continued against any
            property of the specified financial institution;

       (e) that no steps may be taken to enforce any security over any
            property of the specified financial institution or to
            repossess from the specified financial institution any
            goods under any hire-purchase agreement, chattels
            leasing agreement or retention of title agreement;

        (f) that no steps may be taken by any person, other than a
            person specified in the order, to sell, transfer, assign or
            otherwise dispose of any property of the specified financial
            institution.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            121

 (3) Any sale, transfer, assignment or other disposition of any
property of the specified financial institution in contravention of any
order made under subsection (2)(f) is void.

 (4) Any order made under subsection (2) is valid for a period not
exceeding 6 months.

 (5) So long as an order under subsection (1) remains in force, the
Authority may, by written notice to that specified financial
institution, suspend the approval, authorisation, designation,
recognition, registration or licence of that specified financial
institution under the relevant Act.

 (6) A specified financial institution that contravenes an order under
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every
day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (7) It is not necessary to publish any order under subsection (1) in
the Gazette.

General provisions as to winding up

 63.—(1) On the application of the Authority, the Court may, in
addition to the grounds specified in section 125(1) of the Insolvency,
Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018, order under that Act the
winding up of a company incorporated in Singapore which is carrying
on or has carried on the significant business of a specified financial
institution in Singapore, if —

       (a) the Authority has exercised any power under the relevant
            provisions in relation to the company; or

       (b) the company has contravened any provision of this Act or
            any other MAS scheduled Act.

 (2) On the application of the Authority, the Court may, in addition
to the grounds specified in section 246(1) of the Insolvency,
Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018, order under that Act the
winding up of an unregistered company which is carrying on or has

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
122  NO. 18 OF 2022

carried on the significant business of a specified financial institution
in Singapore, if —

       (a) the Authority has exercised any power under the relevant
            provisions in relation to the unregistered company;

       (b) the unregistered company has been approved, authorised,
            designated, recognised, registered, licensed or otherwise
            regulated by the Authority under this Act or any other
            MAS scheduled Act, and any of the following applies:

               (i) the approval, authorisation, designation or
                   recognition of the unregistered company has been
                   withdrawn;

              (ii) the registration of the unregistered company has
                   been cancelled or has expired;

             (iii) the licence of the unregistered company has been
                   revoked or has expired;

             (iv) the regulation of the unregistered company by the
                   Authority has ceased; or

       (c) the unregistered company is carrying on or has carried on
            the significant business of a specified financial institution
            in Singapore in contravention of any provision of this Act
            or any other MAS scheduled Act.

 (3) Despite sections 125(2) and 246(2) of the Insolvency,
Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018, on the application of the
Authority for the winding up, on the ground specified in
section 125(1)(e) or 246(1)(c)(ii) of that Act, of a company which
is carrying on or has carried on the significant business of a specified
financial institution in Singapore, any statement of account lodged by
the company with the Authority, at any time during the period
beginning with the close of the last financial year of the company and
ending with the making of the application for the winding up, which
shows that the company is insolvent, is evidence that the company —

       (a) was insolvent at the close of that financial year; and

       (b) continues to be unable to pay its debts.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            123

 (4) Despite any written law or rule of law —

       (a) a person may not be appointed as an office-holder, or as a
            liquidator under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
            Dissolution Act 2018, of a company, which is carrying
            on or has carried on the significant business in Singapore
            of a specified financial institution, without the prior written
            approval of the Authority; and

       (b) in the case of a foreign company which is carrying on or
            has carried on the significant business in Singapore of a
            specified financial institution, a liquidator appointed for its
            liquidation or dissolution at its place of incorporation or
            origin does not have and must not exercise any power or
            function of a liquidator in Singapore, unless the liquidator
            has been approved by the Authority.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (4)(a) does not affect the operation
of section 134(a), (d) or (e) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
Dissolution Act 2018.

 (6) Any approval of the Authority under subsection (4)(b) may be
granted subject to such conditions as the Authority may determine,
and the Authority may add to, vary or revoke any such condition.

 (7) The specified financial institution or the liquidator (as the case
may be) mentioned in subsection (4)(b) must comply with the
conditions in subsection (6).

 (8) Despite any written law or rule of law, where a company which
is carrying on or has carried on the significant business of a specified
financial institution in Singapore is being wound up under the
Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018, the Authority
has, subject to such modifications as may be necessary, the same
powers and rights as a creditor of the company under that Act,
including the right to appear and be heard before the Court in any
proceedings in the winding up.

 (9) Without affecting subsections (6) and (8) and despite any
written law or rule of law, where a company which is carrying on or
has carried on the significant business in Singapore of a specified
financial institution is being wound up, its liquidator (whether

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
124  NO. 18 OF 2022

appointed under the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
Act 2018 or, in the case of a foreign company, appointed at its
place of incorporation or origin) must give the Authority such
information as the Authority may from time to time require about the
affairs of the company and the winding up.

 (10) A liquidator who —

       (a) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
            subsection (7) or (9); or

       (b) in purported compliance with subsection (9), knowingly or
            recklessly provides any information or document that is
            false or misleading in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

 (11) In this section —

      “liquidator” includes a provisional liquidator;

      “unregistered company” has the meaning given by
         section 245(1) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
         Dissolution Act 2018.

Power of Court to take action against directors and executive
officers

 64.—(1) Without affecting any provision of this Act or any other
MAS scheduled Act, if, in the course of exercising the Authority’s
powers under this Part or the relevant provisions, it appears to the
Authority that any past or present director or executive officer of a
specified financial institution has failed to discharge the duties of his
or her office, has misapplied or retained, or become liable or
accountable for, any money or property of the specified financial
institution, or has been guilty of any misfeasance or breach of trust or
duty in relation to the specified financial institution, the Authority
may apply to the Court for, and the Court may make —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            125

       (a) an order that any salary, remuneration or other benefits
            received by the director or executive officer from the
            specified financial institution during the relevant period be
            repaid or returned to the specified financial institution;

       (b) an order that the director or executive officer ceases to be
            entitled to receive any deferred salary, remuneration or
            other benefits that the specified financial institution had
            agreed to pay to him or her during the relevant period;

       (c) an order that any deferred salary, remuneration or other
            benefits to be paid by the specified financial institution to
            the director or executive officer be reduced by such amount
            as the Court thinks just;

       (d) the orders referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b); or

       (e) the orders referred to in paragraphs (a) and (c).

 (2) Where it appears to the Authority that the director or executive
officer has acted recklessly, fraudulently or dishonestly in relation to
the specified financial institution, the Authority may apply to the
Court to extend, and the Court may order the extension of, the length
of the relevant period.

 (3) In this section, “relevant period” means the period of 2 years
immediately preceding the date on which the Authority began to
exercise its powers under this Part or the date on which the Authority
began to exercise its powers under the relevant provisions, whichever
is the earlier.

           Division 2 — Compulsory transfer of business of
                       pertinent financial institution

Interpretation of this Division

 65. In this Division, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “business” includes affairs, property, right, obligation and
         liability;

      “certificate” means a certificate of transfer issued by the
         Minister under section 67(1);

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
126  NO. 18 OF 2022

      “debenture” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
         Companies Act 1967;

      “determination” means a determination made by the Authority
         under section 66(1);

      “guaranteed policy moneys” has the meaning given by section 2
         of the Insurance Act 1966;

      “property” includes property, right and power of every
         description;

      “specified business” means any part of the business of a
         transferor which is specified or identified in a certificate;

      “transferee” means any person to which the whole or any part of
         a transferor’s business is, is to be, or is proposed to be
         transferred under this Division;

      “transferor” means a pertinent financial institution the whole or
         any part of the business of which is, is to be, or is proposed to
         be transferred under this Division.

Compulsory transfer of business

 66.—(1) Subject to subsections (2), (3) and (7), the Authority may
make a determination that the whole or any part of the business of a
transferor must be transferred to a transferee, if —

       (a) any ground exists for the Authority to exercise any power
            under the relevant provisions in relation to the transferor,
            whether or not the Authority has exercised the power;

       (b) the board of directors of the transferee (in any case where
            the transferee is a corporation), or the committee of
            management of the transferee (in any case where the
            transferee is a co‑operative society), has consented to the
            transfer;

       (c) the Authority is satisfied that the transfer is appropriate,
            having regard to —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            127

 (i) in any case where the transferor is a bank —

       (A) the interests of the depositors of the transferor
             given priority and the order of priority of each
             class of depositors under section 62 of the
             Banking Act 1970;

       (B) if the transferee is a bank, the interests of the
             depositors of the transferee given priority and
             the order of priority of each class of depositors
             under section 62 of the Banking Act 1970;

       (C) the stability of the financial system in
             Singapore; and

       (D) any other matter that the Authority considers
             relevant;

(ii) in any case where the transferor is a finance company
      licensed under the Finance Companies Act 1967 —

       (A) the interests of the depositors of the transferor
             given priority and the order of priority of each
             class of depositors under section 44A of the
             Finance Companies Act 1967;

       (B) if the transferee is a finance company licensed
             under the Finance Companies Act 1967, the
             interests of the depositors of the transferee
             given priority and the order of priority of each
             class of depositors under section 44A of that
             Act;

       (C) the stability of the financial system in
             Singapore; and

       (D) any other matter that the Authority considers
             relevant;

(iii) in any case where the transferor is an insurer licensed
      under the Insurance Act 1966 —

       (A) the interests of the policy owners of the
             transferor given priority and the order of

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
128  NO. 18 OF 2022

                          priority of each class of policy owners under
                          section 123 of the Insurance Act 1966;

                     (B) if the transferee is an insurer licensed under the
                          Insurance Act 1966, the interests of the policy
                          owners of the transferee given priority and the
                          order of priority of each class of policy owners
                          under section 123 of that Act;

                     (C) the stability of the financial system in
                          Singapore;

                    (D) whether the PPF Agency has to make a payout
                          from any of the PPF Funds to the transferee and
                          the amount of such payout, if any; and

                     (E) any other matter that the Authority considers
                          relevant; or

             (iv) in any other case —

                    (A) the interests of the affected persons of the
                          transferor;

                     (B) the interests of the affected persons of the
                          transferee;

                     (C) the stability of the financial system in
                          Singapore; and

                    (D) any other matter that the Authority considers
                          relevant;

       (d) the transfer involves the whole or part of the significant
            business of the transferor; and

       (e) where the transferee is to carry on the whole or part of the
            significant business of the transferor, the transferee is, or
            will be applying to be, approved, authorised, designated,
            recognised, registered, licensed or otherwise regulated by
            the Authority under this Act or any other MAS scheduled
            Act, to carry on the significant business of the transferor.

 (2) Where the transferor is a pertinent financial institution
incorporated or established outside Singapore, any determination

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            129

must only be in respect of the transferor’s business (or any part of the
business) which is reflected in the books of the transferor in
Singapore in relation to the transferor’s operations in Singapore,
and the references to depositors, policy owners and affected persons
in subsection (1)(c) are to be construed accordingly.

 (3) Where the transferor is an insurer licensed under the Insurance
Act 1966, any determination made by the Authority for the purpose of
subsection (1) may include a determination as to whether guaranteed
policy moneys in relation to any policy should be adjusted upon the
proposed transfer so as to achieve an orderly resolution of the
transferor.

 (4) The Authority may, before making a determination, appoint one
or more persons —

       (a) to perform an independent assessment of —

               (i) the proposed transfer of the business (or any part of
                   the business) of the transferor;

              (ii) the consideration, if any, that should be paid by the
                   transferee; and

             (iii) where the transferor is an insurer licensed under the
                   Insurance Act 1966, whether guaranteed policy
                   moneys in relation to any policy should be
                   adjusted upon the proposed transfer so as to
                   achieve an orderly resolution of the transferor; and

       (b) to provide to the Authority a report on the assessment and
            on the proposed transfer.

 (5) The remuneration and expenses of any person appointed under
subsection (4) must be paid by the transferor.

 (6) The Authority must serve a copy of any report provided under
subsection (4) on the transferor and transferee.

 (7) A determination may provide for the transfer of the business (or
any part of the business) of the transferor to a transferee for the
purpose mentioned in subsection (1)(e), where the transferee is not
approved, authorised, designated, recognised, registered, licensed or
otherwise regulated by the Authority under this Act or any other MAS

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
130  NO. 18 OF 2022

scheduled Act, to carry on in Singapore the significant business of the
transferor, on terms that the transfer is to take effect only in the event
of the transferee becoming so approved, authorised, designated,
recognised, registered, licensed or regulated, as the case may be.

 (8) Upon making a determination, the Authority must submit the
determination to the Minister for approval.

 (9) Before approving the determination, the Minister must, unless
the Minister decides that it is not practicable or desirable to do so —

       (a) publish in the Gazette and in such newspaper or
            newspapers as the Minister may determine a notice of
            the Minister’s intention to approve the determination,
            specifying such particulars as the Minister considers
            appropriate; and

       (b) cause to be given to the transferor written notice of the
            Minister’s intention to approve the determination,
            specifying such particulars as the Minister considers
            appropriate and the date by which the transferor may
            make written representations to the Minister.

 (10) In determining the period within which written representations
have to be made under subsection (9), the Minister must take into
account the need for the transfer to be effected expeditiously in the
interest of the stability of the financial system in Singapore.

 (11) Upon receipt of any written representation, the Minister must
consider the representation for the purpose of deciding whether to
approve the determination.

 (12) Where the transferor is a bank incorporated in Singapore, the
Minister must not approve the determination unless the Minister is
satisfied that it is in the national interest to do so.

 (13) The Minister may —

       (a) approve the determination without modification;

       (b) approve the determination subject to any modification the
            Minister considers appropriate, if either the board of
            directors of the transferee (if it is a corporation) or the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            131

            committee of management of the transferee (if it is a
            co‑operative society) has agreed to the modification; or

       (c) refuse to approve the determination.

 (14) Any approval under subsection (13) is subject to such
conditions as the Minister may determine to give effect to the
determination, and the Minister may add to, vary or revoke any such
condition.

 (15) The transferor or transferee (as the case may be) must comply
with every condition mentioned in subsection (14) that applies to it
and of which it has been given written notice by the Authority.

 (16) A person that contravenes subsection (15) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (17) A determination, an approval under subsection (13)(a) or (b)
of a determination or the issue of a certificate does not preclude the
exercise of any power by the Authority or the Minister under this Act
or the relevant Act applicable to the transferor.

Certificate of transfer

 67.—(1) If the Minister approves a determination, the Minister
must, as soon as practicable, issue a certificate of transfer, which
comes into effect on the date specified by the Minister in the
certificate.

 (2) The certificate must specify such information as may be
prescribed by regulations made under section 135.

 (3) The certificate may make provision for all or any of the
following matters:

       (a) the transfer to the transferee of the whole or any part of the
            business of the transferor;

       (b) the allotment or appropriation by the transferee of any
            share, debenture, policy or other interest in the transferee

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
132  NO. 18 OF 2022

            which under the transfer is to be allotted or appropriated by
            the transferee to or for any person;

       (c) any property which is held by the transferor as trustee;

       (d) any future or contingent right or liability of the transferor;

       (e) the coming into effect of the transfer of any specified
            business on a date other than the date on which the
            certification comes into effect;

        (f) the consideration, if any, to be paid by the transferee to the
            transferor, and the period within which the consideration is
            to be paid;

       (g) where the transferor is an insurer licensed under the
            Insurance Act 1966, whether guaranteed policy moneys in
            relation to any policy should be adjusted upon the proposed
            transfer so as to achieve an orderly resolution of the
            transferor;

       (h) such incidental, consequential and supplementary matters
            as are, in the Minister’s opinion, necessary to secure that
            the transfer is fully effective, including conditions relating
            to the transfer.

 (4) The Minister may at any time before the certificate comes into
effect add to, vary or revoke any matter specified in the certificate.

 (5) On or before the date on which the certificate comes into effect,
the Authority must cause the certificate and any addition, variation or
revocation referred to in subsection (4) to be —

       (a) served on the transferor and the transferee; and

       (b) published in the Gazette and in such newspaper or
            newspapers as the Minister may determine.

 (6) Subject to subsection (7), unless otherwise specified in the
certificate, the transfer of the business (or any part of the business) of
the transferor under the certificate takes effect on the date on which
the certificate comes into effect.

 (7) Where the transferee is to carry on the whole or part of the
significant business of the transferor, and is not approved, authorised,

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            133

designated, recognised, registered, licensed or otherwise regulated by
the Authority under this Act or any other MAS scheduled Act, to
carry on in Singapore the significant business of the transferor, the
transfer of the business (or any part of the business) does not come
into effect unless the transferee becomes so approved, authorised,
designated, recognised, registered, licensed or regulated, as the case
may be.

 (8) Despite any written law or rule of law, upon the date on which
the transfer of the business (or any part of the business) of the
transferor comes into effect under the certificate —

       (a) subject to subsection (13) —

               (i) the business (or any part of the business) is
                   transferred to and vests in the transferee without
                   other or further assurance, act or deed; and

              (ii) the certificate has effect according to its tenor and is
                   binding on any person thereby affected;

       (b) no deed, bond, agreement or other arrangement subsisting
            immediately before that date —

               (i) which relates to the business (or any part of the
                   business); and

              (ii) to which the transferor is a party,

       (b) is considered terminated by reason only of the transfer, but
            each of these continues in full force and effect, and is
            enforceable by or against the transferee (as the case may
            be), as from that date, as if the transferee had been named
            in it or had been a party to it instead of the transferor; and

       (c) any proceedings or cause of action, by or against the
            transferor, pending or existing immediately before that
            date and relating to the business (or any part of the
            business) may be continued and enforced by or against the
            transferee as from that date.

 (9) Subsection (8)(b) does not apply to a contract of employment.

 (10) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the operation of
section 18A of the Employment Act 1968.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
134  NO. 18 OF 2022

 (11) To avoid doubt, the business (or any part of the business) of the
transferor is transferred to and vests in the transferee in accordance
with subsection (8), despite any incapacity of the transferor.

 (12) Where the transferor is an insurer licensed under the Insurance
Act 1966 and guaranteed policy moneys under a policy have been
adjusted under the certificate —

       (a) the policy owner or claimant continues to have recourse
            against the transferor for the difference between the
            original guaranteed policy moneys and the adjusted
            guaranteed policy moneys; and

       (b) any agreement or other arrangement mentioned in
            subsection (8)(b) has effect as if the guaranteed policy
            moneys have been so adjusted.

 (13) The certificate does not have any effect or operation in
transferring or otherwise vesting land in Singapore until the
appropriate entries are made with respect to the transfer or vesting
of that land by the appropriate authority.

 (14) Section 130(1) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
Dissolution Act 2018 does not apply to the transfer of any property
under the certificate.

 (15) If any specified business is governed by the law of any foreign
country or territory, and the transferee so requires, the transferor must
take all necessary steps for securing that the transfer of the specified
business to the transferee is fully effective under the law of that
country or territory.

 (16) The transferor and the transferee must each lodge, within
7 days after being served with the certificate —

       (a) a copy of the certificate with the Registrar of Companies;

       (b) where the transferor or the transferee is a co‑operative
            society, a copy of the certificate with the Registrar of
            Co‑operative Societies; and

       (c) where the certificate relates to land in Singapore, an office
            copy of the certificate with the appropriate authority

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            135

            concerned with the registration or recording of dealings in
            that land.

 (17) A transferor or transferee that fails to comply with any
provision in the certificate shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in the case
of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $25,000 for
every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (18) A transferor that contravenes subsection (15) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (19) A transferor or transferee that contravenes subsection (16), and
every officer of the transferor or the transferee (as the case may be)
who fails to take all reasonable steps to secure compliance by the
transferor or transferee (as the case may be) with that subsection,
shall each be guilty of an offence and shall each be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $200 for every day
or part of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (20) In subsection (19), “officer”, in relation to a transferor or
transferee, includes —

       (a) a director, a secretary or an executive officer of the
            transferor or transferee, as the case may be;

       (b) a receiver or manager of any part of the undertaking of the
            transferor or transferee (as the case may be) appointed
            under a power contained in any instrument; and

       (c) a liquidator of the transferor or the transferee (as the case
            may be) appointed in a voluntary winding up.

Moratorium, avoidance of disposition of property, etc.

 68.—(1) Despite section 62(2) but subject to section 134, no
resolution may be passed, and no order may be made, for the winding
up of a transferor, and no judicial manager may be appointed under

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
136  NO. 18 OF 2022

Part 7 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
relation to a transferor, during the period —

       (a) beginning on —

               (i) the date on which the Minister publishes the notice
                   under section 66(9) in the Gazette on the transfer of
                   the business (or any part of the business) of the
                   transferor; or

              (ii) where the notice is not published in the Gazette, the
                   date on which the Authority publishes the certificate
                   under section 67(5) in the Gazette on the transfer of
                   the business (or any part of the business) of the
                   transferor; and

       (b) ending on —

               (i) the date on which the certificate comes into effect; or

              (ii) where the certificate specifies a different date for the
                   coming into effect of the transfer of any specified
                   business, the last day on which the transfer of every
                   specified business has come into effect.

 (2) Despite section 62(2) but subject to section 134, during the
period beginning on the date on which the Minister publishes the
notice under section 66(9) in the Gazette on the transfer of a specified
business of the transferor or (where the notice is not published in the
Gazette) the date on which the Authority publishes the certificate
under section 67(5) in the Gazette on the transfer of the specified
business, and ending on the date on which the transfer of the specified
business comes into effect —

       (a) no proceedings may be commenced or continued against
            the transferor in respect of the specified business;

       (b) no enforcement order, distress or other legal process may
            be commenced, levied or continued against the specified
            business;

       (c) no steps may be taken to enforce any security over the
            specified business or to repossess from the transferor the
            specified business under any hire-purchase agreement,

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            137

     chattels leasing agreement or retention of title agreement;
     and

(d) any sale, transfer, assignment or other disposition of the
     specified business is void, except for (where the transferor
     is an insurer licensed under the Insurance Act 1966) any
     payment of claims to policy owners or claimants, other
     than policy owners who are related corporations of the
     transferor.

             Division 3 — Reverse transfer of business and
                        onward transfer of business

Interpretation of this Division

 69. In this Division —

      “2nd transferee” means the person to which the whole or part of
         a transferor’s business that was transferred to a transferee by
         a certificate of transfer, is or is to be transferred from the
         transferee in accordance with an onward transfer certificate
         under section 73;

      “business” includes affairs, property, right, obligation and
         liability;

      “certificate of transfer” means a certificate of transfer issued
         under section 67;

      “onward transfer” means the transfer by the transferee to the
         2nd transferee, in accordance with an onward transfer
         certificate under section 73, of the whole or part of the
         business transferred to the transferee by a certificate of
         transfer;

      “reverse transfer” means the transfer by the transferee to the
         transferor in accordance with a reverse transfer certificate
         under section 71, of the whole or part of the transferor’s
         business that was transferred to the transferee by a certificate
         of transfer;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
138  NO. 18 OF 2022

      “transferee” means the person to which the whole or part of a
         transferor’s business has been transferred by a certificate of
         transfer;

      “transferor” means a pertinent financial institution the whole or
         part of the business of which has been transferred by a
         certificate of transfer.

Reverse transfer of business

 70.—(1) Subject to this section, the Authority may, at any time after
the transfer of any business under a certificate of transfer, make a
determination that the whole or any part of the business transferred to
the transferee by the certificate be transferred back to the transferor.

 (2) The Authority may make such determination if —

       (a) the board of directors of the transferee (if it is a
            corporation), or the committee of management of the
            transferee (if it is a co-operative society), consents to the
            reverse transfer; and

       (b) the conditions prescribed by regulations made under
            section 135 are met.

 (3) The Authority must submit every determination under
subsection (1) to the Minister for approval.

 (4) The Minister may —

       (a) approve a determination under subsection (1) without
            modification;

       (b) approve a determination under subsection (1) subject to
            any modification the Minister considers appropriate, if the
            board of directors of the transferee (if it is a corporation),
            or the committee of management of the transferee (if it is a
            co‑operative society), agrees to the modification; or

       (c) refuse to approve the determination.

 (5) An approval under subsection (4)(a) or (b) is subject to such
conditions as the Minister may determine to be necessary to give
effect to the determination, and the Minister may add to, vary or
revoke any such condition.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            139

 (6) The transferor or the transferee (as the case may be) must
comply with every condition mentioned in subsection (5) that applies
to it and of which it has been given written notice by the Authority.

 (7) A person that contravenes subsection (6) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (8) A determination under subsection (1) or an approval under
subsection (4)(a) or (b) of the determination does not prevent the
exercise of any power by the Authority or the Minister under this Act
or the relevant Act applicable to the transferor.

Reverse transfer certificate

 71.—(1) If the Minister approves a determination under section 70,
the Minister must, as soon as practicable, issue a certificate (called in
this section the reverse transfer certificate), which is to come into
effect on the date specified in the certificate.

 (2) The reverse transfer certificate must specify such information as
may be prescribed by regulations made under section 135.

 (3) The reverse transfer certificate may make provision for one or
more of the following matters:

       (a) the reverse transfer approved by the Minister;

       (b) the effective date of the reverse transfer, if different from
            the date on which the reverse transfer certificate comes into
            effect;

       (c) the consideration, if any, to be returned by the transferee to
            the transferor and the period within which the
            consideration is to be returned;

       (d) the rescission of provisions made for any of the matters
            mentioned in section 67(3)(c) and (d) in the certificate of
            transfer concerned;

       (e) such incidental, consequential and supplementary matters
            as are, in the Minister’s opinion, necessary to secure that

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
140  NO. 18 OF 2022

            the reverse transfer is fully effective, including any
            condition mentioned in section 70(5).

 (4) The Minister may, at any time before the reverse transfer
certificate comes into effect, add to, vary or revoke any matter
specified in the reverse transfer certificate.

 (5) On or before the date on which the reverse transfer certificate
comes into effect, the Authority must cause the reverse transfer
certificate, and any addition, variation or revocation mentioned in
subsection (4) to be —

       (a) served on the transferor and the transferee; and

       (b) published in the Gazette and in such newspaper or
            newspapers as the Minister may determine.

 (6) Subject to subsection (7), unless otherwise specified in the
reverse transfer certificate, the effective date of the reverse transfer is
the date on which the reverse transfer certificate comes into effect.

 (7) Despite any written law or rule of law (including section 67 as it
applies to the certificate of transfer in question), on the effective date
of the reverse transfer —

       (a) subject to subsection (10) —

               (i) the business that is the subject of the reverse transfer
                   is transferred back to and vests in the transferor
                   without other or further assurance, act or deed; and

              (ii) the reverse transfer certificate has effect according to
                   its tenor and is binding on any person affected by it;

       (b) no deed, bond, agreement or other arrangement mentioned
            in section 67(8)(b) which relates to the business that is the
            subject of the reverse transfer is considered terminated by
            reason only of the reverse transfer, but each of these
            continues in full force and effect and is once again
            enforceable by or against the transferor, as the case may be;

       (c) no deed, bond, agreement or other arrangement —

               (i) that is entered into by the transferee after the transfer
                   of business under the certificate of transfer under

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            141

                   section 67, but before the effective date of the reverse
                   transfer; and

              (ii) which relates to the business that is the subject of the
                   reverse transfer,

       (c) is considered terminated by reason only of the reverse
            transfer, but each of these continues in full force and effect,
            and is enforceable by or against the transferor (as the case
            may be), as if the transferor had been named in it or had
            been a party to it instead of the transferee; and

       (d) any proceedings or cause of action, by or against the
            transferee, pending or existing immediately before the
            effective date of the reverse transfer (including those
            mentioned in section 67(8)(c)), and relating to the business
            that is the subject of the reverse transfer may be continued
            and enforced by or against the transferor as from that date.

 (8) Subsection (7)(b) and (c) does not apply to a contract of
employment.

 (9) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the operation of
section 18A of the Employment Act 1968.

 (10) Section 67(11) to (20) applies in relation to a reverse transfer
as it applies to a transfer of business under that provision as if —

       (a) a reference to the business to be transferred is a reference to
            the business that is the subject of the reverse transfer;

       (b) a reference to the transferor is a reference to the transferee;

       (c) a reference to the transferee is a reference to the transferor;
            and

       (d) a reference to the certificate of transfer is a reference to the
            reverse transfer certificate.

Onward transfer of business

 72.—(1) Subject to this section, the Authority may, at any time after
the transfer of any business under a certificate of transfer, make a
determination that the whole or any part of the business transferred to
the transferee by the certificate be transferred to another transferee.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
142  NO. 18 OF 2022

 (2) The Authority may make such determination if —

       (a) the board of directors of the 2nd transferee (if it is a
            corporation), or the committee of management of the
            2nd transferee (if it is a co‑operative society), consents to
            the transfer; and

       (b) the transferee is an entity established or incorporated to do
            one or both of the following:

               (i) temporarily hold and manage the assets and
                   liabilities of the transferor;

              (ii) do any other act for the orderly resolution of the
                   transferor.

 (3) The Authority must submit every determination under
subsection (1) to the Minister for approval.

 (4) The Minister may —

       (a) approve a determination under subsection (1) without
            modification;

       (b) approve a determination under subsection (1) subject to
            any modification the Minister considers appropriate, if the
            board of directors of the 2nd transferee (if it is a
            corporation), or the committee of management of the
            2nd transferee (if it is a co‑operative society), agrees to the
            modification; or

       (c) refuse to approve the determination.

 (5) An approval under subsection (4)(a) or (b) is subject to such
conditions as the Minister may determine to be necessary to give
effect to the determination, and the Minister may add to, vary or
revoke any such condition.

 (6) The transferee or 2nd transferee (as the case may be) must
comply with every condition mentioned in subsection (5) that applies
to it and of which it has been given written notice by the Authority.

 (7) A person that contravenes subsection (6) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            143

exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (8) A determination under subsection (1) or an approval under
subsection (4)(a) or (b) of the determination does not prevent the
exercise of any power by the Authority or the Minister under this Act
or the relevant Act applicable to the transferor.

Onward transfer certificate

 73.—(1) If the Minister approves a determination under section 72,
the Minister must, as soon as practicable, issue a certificate (called in
this section the onward transfer certificate), which is to come into
effect on the date specified in the certificate.

 (2) The onward transfer certificate must specify such information
as may be prescribed by regulations made under section 135.

 (3) The onward transfer certificate may make provision for all or
any of the following matters:

       (a) the onward transfer approved by the Minister;

       (b) the effective date of the onward transfer, if different from
            the date on which the onward transfer certificate comes
            into effect;

       (c) the consideration, if any, to be paid by the 2nd transferee to
            the transferee and the period within which the
            consideration is to be paid;

       (d) such incidental, consequential and supplementary matters
            as are, in the Minister’s opinion, necessary to secure that
            the onward transfer is fully effective, including any
            condition mentioned in section 72(5).

 (4) The Minister may, at any time before the onward transfer
certificate comes into effect, add to, vary or revoke any matter
specified in the onward transfer certificate.

 (5) On or before the date on which the onward transfer certificate
comes into effect, the Authority must cause the onward transfer
certificate and any addition, variation or revocation mentioned in
subsection (4) —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
144  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (a) to be served on the transferee and the 2nd transferee; and

       (b) to be published in the Gazette and in such newspaper or
            newspapers as the Minister may determine.

 (6) Subject to subsection (7), unless otherwise specified in the
onward transfer certificate, the effective date of the onward transfer is
the date on which the onward transfer certificate comes into effect.

 (7) Despite any written law or rule of law (including section 67 as it
applies to the certificate of transfer in question), on the effective date
of the onward transfer —

       (a) subject to subsection (10) —

               (i) the business that is the subject of the onward transfer
                   is transferred to and vests in the 2nd transferee
                   without other or further assurance, act or deed; and

              (ii) the onward transfer certificate has effect according to
                   its tenor and is binding on any person affected by it;

       (b) no deed, bond, agreement or other arrangement (including
            any deed, bond, agreement or other arrangement
            mentioned in section 67(8)(b)) which relates to the
            business that is the subject of the onward transfer, is
            considered terminated by reason only of the onward
            transfer, but each of these continues in full force and
            effect and is enforceable by or against the 2nd transferee
            (as the case may be) as if the 2nd transferee had been
            named in it or had been a party to it instead of the
            transferee; and

       (c) any proceedings or cause of action, by or against the
            transferee, pending or existing immediately before the
            effective date of the onward transfer (including those
            mentioned in section 67(8)(c)) and relating to the business
            that is the subject of the onward transfer may be continued
            and enforced by or against the 2nd transferee as from that
            date.

 (8) Subsection (7)(b) does not apply to a contract of employment.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            145

 (9) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the operation of
section 18A of the Employment Act 1968.

 (10) Section 67(11) to (20) applies in relation to an onward transfer
as it applies to a transfer of business under this section as if —

       (a) a reference to the business to be transferred is a reference to
            the business that is the subject of the onward transfer;

       (b) a reference to the transferor is a reference to the transferee;

       (c) a reference to the transferee is a reference to the
            2nd transferee; and

       (d) a reference to the certificate of transfer is a reference to the
            onward transfer certificate.

      Division 4 — Compulsory transfer of shares of pertinent
                             financial institution

Interpretation of this Division

 74.—(1) In this Division, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “business” includes affairs, property, right, obligation and
         liability;

      “certificate” means a certificate of transfer issued by the
         Minister under section 76(1);

      “determination” means a determination made by the Authority
         under section 75(1);

      “property” includes property, right and power of every
         description;

      “significant shareholder”, in relation to a pertinent financial
         institution, means any person prescribed by regulations made
         under section 135 as a significant shareholder for that
         pertinent financial institution;

      “significant shareholder provisions”, in relation to any pertinent
         financial institution, means such provisions of written law as
         may be prescribed by regulations made under section 135 as
         significant shareholder provisions for that pertinent financial
         institution;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
146  NO. 18 OF 2022

      “transferee” means any person to whom a transferor’s shares
         are, are to be, or are proposed to be, transferred under this
         Division;

      “transferor” means a shareholder of a pertinent financial
         institution whose shares in the pertinent financial
         institution are, are to be, or are proposed to be, transferred
         under this Division.

 (2) This Division does not apply where the pertinent financial
institution is a co‑operative society.

Compulsory transfer of shares

 75.—(1) The Authority may make a determination that all or any of
the shares held by a transferor in a pertinent financial institution
incorporated in Singapore be transferred to a transferee, if —

       (a) any ground exists for the Authority to exercise any power
            under the relevant provisions in relation to the pertinent
            financial institution, whether or not the Authority has
            exercised the power;

       (b) the transferee or, where the transferee is a corporation or
            co‑operative society, the board of directors of the
            transferee (in any case where the transferee is a
            corporation), or the committee of management of the
            transferee (in any case where the transferee is a
            co‑operative society), has consented to the transfer; and

       (c) the Authority is satisfied that the transfer is appropriate,
            having regard to —

               (i) in any case where the pertinent financial institution is
                   a bank —

                    (A) the interests of the depositors of the pertinent
                          financial institution given priority and the
                          order of priority of each class of depositors
                          under section 62 of the Banking Act 1970;

                     (B) if the transferee is a bank, the interests of the
                          depositors of the transferee given priority and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            147

             the order of priority of each class of depositors
             under section 62 of the Banking Act 1970;

       (C) the stability of the financial system in
             Singapore; and

       (D) any other matter that the Authority considers
             relevant;

(ii) in any case where the pertinent financial institution is
      a finance company licensed under the Finance
      Companies Act 1967 —

       (A) the interests of the depositors of the pertinent
             financial institution given priority and the
             order of priority of each class of depositors
             under section 44A of the Finance Companies
             Act 1967;

       (B) if the transferee is a finance company licensed
             under the Finance Companies Act 1967, the
             interests of the depositors of the transferee
             given priority and the order of priority of each
             class of depositors under section 44A of that
             Act;

       (C) the stability of the financial system in
             Singapore; and

       (D) any other matter that the Authority considers
             relevant;

(iii) in any case where the pertinent financial institution is
      an insurer licensed under the Insurance Act 1966 —

       (A) the interests of the policy owners of the insurer
             given priority and the order of priority of each
             class of policy owners under section 123 of the
             Insurance Act 1966;

       (B) if the transferee is an insurer licensed under the
             Insurance Act 1966, the interests of the policy
             owners of the transferee given priority and the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
148  NO. 18 OF 2022

                          order of priority of each class of policy owners
                          under section 123 of that Act;

                     (C) the stability of the financial system in
                          Singapore;

                    (D) whether the PPF Agency has to make a payout
                          from any of the PPF Funds to the transferee and
                          the amount of such payout, if any; and

                     (E) any other matter that the Authority considers
                          relevant; or

             (iv) in any other case —

                    (A) the interests of the affected persons of the
                          pertinent financial institution;

                     (B) the interests of the affected persons, if any, of
                          the transferee;

                     (C) the stability of the financial system in
                          Singapore; and

                    (D) any other matter that the Authority considers
                          relevant.

 (2) The Authority may, before making a determination, appoint one
or more persons —

       (a) to perform an independent assessment of —

               (i) the proposed transfer of shares; and

              (ii) the consideration, if any, that should be paid by the
                   transferee; and

       (b) to provide to the Authority a report on the assessment and
            on the proposed transfer.

 (3) The remuneration and expenses of any person appointed under
subsection (2) must be paid by the pertinent financial institution.

 (4) The Authority must serve a copy of any report provided under
subsection (2) on the transferor and the transferee.

 (5) Upon making a determination, the Authority must submit the
determination to the Minister for approval.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            149

 (6) Before approving the determination, the Minister must, unless
the Minister decides that it is not practicable or desirable to do so —

       (a) publish in the Gazette and in such newspaper or
            newspapers as the Minister may determine a notice of
            the Minister’s intention to approve the determination,
            specifying such particulars as the Minister considers
            appropriate; and

       (b) cause to be given to the transferor written notice of the
            Minister’s intention to approve the determination,
            specifying such particulars as the Minister considers
            appropriate and the date by which the transferor may
            make written representations to the Minister.

 (7) In determining the period within which written representations
have to be made under subsection (6), the Minister must take into
account the need for the transfer to be effected expeditiously in the
interest of the stability of the financial system in Singapore.

 (8) Upon receipt of any written representation, the Minister must
consider the representation for the purpose of deciding whether to
approve the determination.

 (9) Where the determination, if approved, will result in the
transferee becoming a significant shareholder of the pertinent
financial institution, the Minister must not approve the
determination unless —

       (a) the Authority is satisfied that —

               (i) the transferee is a fit and proper person under the
                   Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria; and

              (ii) having regard to the likely influence of the
                   transferee, the pertinent financial institution will or
                   will continue to conduct its business prudently and
                   comply with the provisions of this Act and the
                   relevant Act applicable to the pertinent financial
                   institution; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
150  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (b) the Minister is satisfied that —

               (i) in any case where the pertinent financial institution is
                   a bank incorporated in Singapore, it is in the national
                   interest to do so; or

              (ii) in any other case, it is in the public interest to do so.

 (10) The Minister may —

       (a) approve the determination without modification;

       (b) approve the determination subject to any modification the
            Minister considers appropriate, if the transferee or, where
            the transferee is a corporation or co‑operative society, the
            board of directors of the transferee (in any case where the
            transferee is a corporation), or the committee of
            management of the transferee (in any case where the
            transferee is a co‑operative society), has agreed to the
            modification; or

       (c) refuse to approve the determination.

 (11) An approval under subsection (10) is subject to such
conditions as the Minister may determine to be necessary to give
effect to the determination, and the Minister may add to, vary or
revoke any such condition.

 (12) The transferor must comply with every condition referred to in
subsection (11) that applies to the transferor and of which it has been
given written notice by the Authority.

 (13) The transferee must comply with every condition referred to in
subsection (11) that applies to the transferee and of which it has been
given written notice by the Authority.

 (14) A person that contravenes subsection (12) or (13) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (15) A determination, an approval under subsection (10)(a) or (b)
of a determination or the issue of a certificate does not preclude the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            151

exercise of any power by the Authority or the Minister under this Act
or the relevant Act applicable to the pertinent financial institution.

Certificate of transfer

 76.—(1) If the Minister approves a determination, the Minister
must, as soon as practicable, issue a certificate of transfer, which
comes into effect on the date specified by the Minister in the
certificate.

 (2) The certificate must specify such information as may be
prescribed by regulations made under section 135.

 (3) The certificate may make provision for all or any of the
following matters:

       (a) the transfer to the transferee of all or any of the shares of
            the transferor in the pertinent financial institution;

       (b) any share in the pertinent financial institution which is held
            by the transferor as trustee;

       (c) the consideration, if any, to be paid by the transferee to the
            transferor, and the period within which the consideration is
            to be paid;

       (d) such incidental, consequential and supplementary matters
            as are, in the Minister’s opinion, necessary to secure that
            the transfer is fully effective, including conditions relating
            to the transfer.

 (4) The Minister may at any time before the certificate comes into
effect add to, vary or revoke any matter specified in the certificate.

 (5) On or before the date on which the certificate comes into effect,
the Authority must cause the certificate and any addition, variation or
revocation referred to in subsection (4) to be —

       (a) served on the pertinent financial institution; and

       (b) published in the Gazette and in such newspaper or
            newspapers as the Minister may determine.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
152  NO. 18 OF 2022

 (6) Despite any written law or rule of law, or anything in the
memorandum and articles of association of the pertinent financial
institution, upon the certificate coming into effect —

       (a) any share of the transferor that is to be transferred under the
            certificate is transferred to and vests in the transferee, free
            from any claim or encumbrance, without other or further
            assurance, act or deed; and

       (b) the certificate has effect according to its tenor and is
            binding on any person thereby affected.

 (7) To avoid doubt, the shares of the transferor are transferred to
and vest in the transferee in accordance with subsection (6), despite
the death or dissolution, the bankruptcy or winding up, or the mental
or other incapacity, of the transferor.

 (8) Section 130(1) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
Act 2018 does not apply to the transfer of any share under the
certificate.

 (9) Where the transfer of shares under the certificate results in the
transferee becoming a significant shareholder of the pertinent
financial institution, upon the coming into effect of the certificate,
the transferee —

       (a) is treated as having obtained the approval of the Minister or
            the Authority (as the case may be) under the significant
            shareholder provisions applicable to the pertinent financial
            institution, in respect of the shares; and

       (b) is not required to make a take-over offer or to acquire the
            shares of the other shareholders of the pertinent financial
            institution, despite the provisions of the Companies
            Act 1967 or the Take‑over Code.

 (10) A transferor or transferee who fails to comply with any
provision in the certificate shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            153

            to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
            part of a day during which the offence continues after
            conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

 (11) Where a person is charged with an offence under
subsection (10), it is a defence for the person to prove that —

       (a) the person was not aware that the person had contravened
            any provision in the certificate; and

       (b) the person has complied with the provision within a
            reasonable time after becoming aware of the
            contravention.

 (12) Except as provided in subsection (11), it is not a defence for a
person charged with an offence under subsection (10) that the person
did not intend to or did not knowingly contravene any provision in the
certificate.

 (13) Despite section 62(2) but subject to section 134, during the
period beginning on the date on which the Minister publishes the
notice under section 75(6) in the Gazette on the transfer of any share
in a pertinent financial institution or (where the notice is not
published in the Gazette) the date on which the Authority publishes
the certificate under subsection (5) in the Gazette on the transfer of
the share, and ending on the date on which the transfer of the share
comes into effect —

       (a) no enforcement order or other legal process may be
            commenced or continued against the share;

       (b) no steps may be taken to enforce any security over the
            share;

       (c) any sale, transfer, assignment or other disposition of the
            share is void;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
154  NO. 18 OF 2022

     (d) no voting rights are exercisable in respect of the share,
          unless the Minister expressly permits such rights to be
          exercised;

     (e) no shares in the pertinent financial institution may be
          issued or offered (whether by ways of rights, bonus or
          otherwise) in respect of the share, unless the Minister
          expressly permits such issue or offer;

     (f) no payment may be made by the pertinent financial
          institution of any amount (whether by dividends or
          otherwise) in respect of the share, unless the Minister
          expressly authorises such payment;

     (g) no resolution may be passed, and no order may be made,
          for the winding up of the pertinent financial institution;

     (h) no judicial manager may be appointed under Part 7 of the
          Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
          relation to the pertinent financial institution;

     (i) no proceedings may be commenced or continued against
          the pertinent financial institution in respect of any business
          of the pertinent financial institution;

     (j) no enforcement order, distress or other legal process may
          be commenced, levied or continued against any property of
          the pertinent financial institution;

     (k) no steps may be taken to enforce any security over any
          property of the pertinent financial institution; and

     (l) any sale, transfer, assignment or other disposition of any
          property of the pertinent financial institution is void,
          except for (where the pertinent financial institution is an
          insurer licensed under the Insurance Act 1966) any
          payment of claims to policy owners or claimants, other
          than policy owners who are related corporations of the
          pertinent financial institution.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            155

               Division 5 — Compulsory restructuring of
             share capital of pertinent financial institution

Interpretation of this Division

 77. In this Division, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “business” includes affairs, property, right, obligation and
         liability;

      “certificate” means a certificate of restructuring of share capital
         issued by the Minister under section 79(1);

      “determination” means a determination made by the Authority
         under section 78(1) or (2);

      “property” includes property, right and power of every
         description;

      “significant shareholder”, in relation to a pertinent financial
         institution, means any person prescribed by regulations made
         under section 135 as a significant shareholder for that
         pertinent financial institution;

      “significant shareholder provisions”, in relation to any pertinent
         financial institution, means such provisions of written law as
         may be prescribed by regulations made under section 135 for
         that pertinent financial institution;

      “subscriber” means any person to whom shares in a pertinent
         financial institution incorporated in Singapore are, are to be,
         or are proposed to be, issued under this Division.

Compulsory restructuring of share capital

 78.—(1) The Authority may make a determination that the share
capital of a pertinent financial institution incorporated in Singapore
be reduced by the cancellation of the whole or any part of any share
capital not paid up, or of any paid‑up share capital, if —

       (a) any ground exists for the Authority to exercise any power
            under the relevant provisions in relation to the pertinent
            financial institution, whether or not the Authority has
            exercised the power; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
156  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (b) the Authority is of the opinion that —

               (i) the liability on any of the shares of the pertinent
                   financial institution in respect of share capital not
                   paid up ought to be extinguished or reduced; or

              (ii) any paid-up share capital of the pertinent financial
                   institution is lost or not represented by the available
                   assets of the pertinent financial institution.

 (2) The Authority may make a determination that shares be issued
by a pertinent financial institution incorporated in Singapore to a
subscriber, if —

       (a) any ground exists for the Authority to exercise any power
            under the relevant provisions in relation to the pertinent
            financial institution, whether or not the Authority has
            exercised the power;

       (b) the subscriber or, where the subscriber is a corporation or
            co‑operative society, the board of directors of the
            subscriber (in any case where the subscriber is a
            corporation), or the committee of management of the
            subscriber (in any case where the subscriber is a
            co‑operative society), has consented to subscribe for the
            shares; and

       (c) the Authority is satisfied that the issue of shares is
            appropriate, having regard to —

               (i) in any case where the pertinent financial institution is
                   a bank —

                    (A) the interests of the depositors of the pertinent
                          financial institution given priority and the
                          order of priority of each class of depositors
                          under section 62 of the Banking Act 1970;

                     (B) if the subscriber is a bank, the interests of the
                          depositors of the subscriber given priority and
                          the order of priority of each class of depositors
                          under section 62 of the Banking Act 1970;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            157

       (C) the stability of the financial system in
             Singapore; and

       (D) any other matter that the Authority considers
             relevant;

(ii) in any case where the pertinent financial institution is
      a finance company licensed under the Finance
      Companies Act 1967 —

       (A) the interests of the depositors of the pertinent
             financial institution given priority and the
             order of priority of each class of depositors
             under section 44A of the Finance Companies
             Act 1967;

       (B) if the subscriber is a finance company licensed
             under the Finance Companies Act 1967, the
             interests of the depositors of the subscriber
             given priority and the order of priority of each
             class of depositors under section 44A of that
             Act;

       (C) the stability of the financial system in
             Singapore; and

       (D) any other matter that the Authority considers
             relevant;

(iii) in any case where the pertinent financial institution is
      an insurer licensed under the Insurance Act 1966 —

       (A) the interests of the policy owners of the insurer
             given priority and the order of priority of each
             class of policy owners under section 123 of the
             Insurance Act 1966;

       (B) if the subscriber is an insurer licensed under the
             Insurance Act 1966, the interests of the policy
             owners of the subscriber given priority and the
             order of priority of each class of policy owners
             under section 123 of that Act;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
158  NO. 18 OF 2022

                     (C) the stability of the financial system in
                          Singapore; and

                    (D) any other matter that the Authority considers
                          relevant; or

             (iv) in any other case —

                    (A) the interests of the affected persons of the
                          pertinent financial institution;

                     (B) the interests of the affected persons, if any, of
                          the subscriber;

                     (C) the stability of the financial system in
                          Singapore; and

                    (D) any other matter that the Authority considers
                          relevant.

 (3) The Authority may, before making a determination, appoint one
or more persons —

       (a) to perform an independent assessment of —

               (i) in the case of a determination to be made under
                   subsection (1), the value of the assets of the pertinent
                   financial institution and the extent to which the
                   whole or any part of any share capital not paid up, or
                   of any paid‑up share capital, should be cancelled;
                   and

              (ii) in the case of a determination to be made under
                   subsection (2), the value of the assets of the pertinent
                   financial institution in which the shares are proposed
                   to be issued and the consideration, if any, that should
                   be paid by the subscriber; and

       (b) to provide to the Authority a report on the assessment and
            on the proposed restructuring of share capital.

 (4) The remuneration and expenses of any person appointed under
subsection (3) must be paid by the pertinent financial institution in
which the shares are proposed to be cancelled or issued, as the case
may be.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            159

 (5) The Authority must serve a copy of any report provided under
subsection (3) —

       (a) on the pertinent financial institution in which the shares are
            proposed to be cancelled or issued, as the case may be; and

       (b) where the report is in relation to a determination to be made
            under subsection (2), on the subscriber.

 (6) Upon making a determination, the Authority must submit the
determination to the Minister for approval.

 (7) Before approving the determination, the Minister must, unless
the Minister decides that it is not practicable or desirable to do so —

       (a) publish in the Gazette and in such newspaper or
            newspapers as the Minister may determine a notice of
            the Minister’s intention to approve the determination,
            specifying such particulars as the Minister considers
            appropriate and the date by which any shareholder of the
            pertinent financial institution in which the shares are
            proposed to be cancelled or issued (as the case may be)
            may make written representations to the Minister; and

       (b) cause to be given to the pertinent financial institution
            written notice of the Minister’s intention to approve the
            determination, specifying such particulars as the Minister
            considers appropriate and the date by which the pertinent
            financial institution may make written representations to
            the Minister.

 (8) In determining the period within which written representations
have to be made under subsection (7), the Minister must take into
account the need for the restructuring of share capital to be effected
expeditiously in the interest of the stability of the financial system in
Singapore.

 (9) Upon receipt of any written representation, the Minister must
consider the representation for the purpose of deciding whether to
approve the determination.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
160  NO. 18 OF 2022

 (10) Where a determination under subsection (2), if approved, will
result in the subscriber becoming a significant shareholder, the
Minister must not approve the determination unless —

       (a) the Authority is satisfied that —

               (i) the subscriber is a fit and proper person under the
                   Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria; and

              (ii) having regard to the likely influence of the
                   subscriber, the pertinent financial institution will or
                   will continue to conduct its business prudently and
                   comply with the provisions of this Act and the
                   relevant Act applicable to the pertinent financial
                   institution; and

       (b) the Minister is satisfied that —

               (i) in any case where the pertinent financial institution is
                   a bank incorporated in Singapore, it is in the national
                   interest to do so; or

              (ii) in any other case, it is in the public interest to do so.

 (11) The Minister may —

       (a) approve the determination without modification;

       (b) in the case of a determination under subsection (1),
            approve the determination subject to any modification
            the Minister considers appropriate;

       (c) in the case of a determination under subsection (2),
            approve the determination subject to any modification
            the Minister considers appropriate, if the subscriber or,
            where the subscriber is a corporation or co‑operative
            society, the board of directors of the subscriber (in any case
            where the subscriber is a corporation), or the committee of
            management of the subscriber (in any case where the
            subscriber is a co‑operative society), has agreed to the
            modification; or

       (d) refuse to approve the determination.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            161

 (12) An approval under subsection (11) is subject to such
conditions as the Minister may determine to be necessary to give
effect to the determination, and the Minister may add to, vary or
revoke any such condition.

 (13) The pertinent financial institution must comply with every
condition referred to in subsection (12) that applies to it and of which
it has been given written notice by the Authority.

 (14) The subscriber must comply with every condition referred to
in subsection (12) that applies to the subscriber and of which the
subscriber has been given written notice by the Authority.

 (15) A person that contravenes subsection (13) or (14) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (16) A determination, an approval under subsection (11)(a), (b) or
(c) of a determination or the issue of a certificate does not preclude
the exercise of any power by the Authority or the Minister under this
Act or the relevant Act applicable to the pertinent financial
institution.

Certificate of restructuring of share capital

 79.—(1) If the Minister approves a determination, the Minister
must, as soon as practicable, issue a certificate of restructuring of
share capital, which comes into effect on the date specified by the
Minister in the certificate.

 (2) The certificate must specify such information as may be
prescribed by regulations made under section 135.

 (3) The certificate may make provision for all or any of the
following matters:

       (a) the cancellation of the whole or any part of the share capital
            of the pertinent financial institution not paid up;

       (b) the cancellation of the whole or any part of the paid‑up
            share capital of the pertinent financial institution which is

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
162  NO. 18 OF 2022

            lost or not represented by the available assets of the
            pertinent financial institution;

       (c) the shares to be issued by the pertinent financial institution
            to the subscriber, the consideration, if any, to be paid by the
            subscriber for the shares and the period within which the
            consideration is to be paid;

       (d) such incidental, consequential and supplementary matters
            as are, in the Minister’s opinion, necessary to secure that
            the restructuring of share capital is fully effective,
            including conditions relating to the restructuring of share
            capital.

 (4) The Minister may at any time before the certificate comes into
effect add to, vary or revoke any matter specified in the certificate.

 (5) On or before the date on which the certificate comes into effect,
the Authority must cause the certificate and any addition, variation or
revocation referred to in subsection (4) to be —

       (a) served on the pertinent financial institution; and

       (b) published in the Gazette and in such newspaper or
            newspapers as the Minister may determine.

 (6) Despite any written law or rule of law, or anything in the
memorandum and articles of association of the pertinent financial
institution, upon the certificate coming into effect —

       (a) where the certificate provides for a reduction of the share
            capital of the pertinent financial institution —

               (i) the reduction of the share capital takes effect without
                   other or further act by the pertinent financial
                   institution; and

              (ii) the certificate has effect according to its tenor and is
                   binding on any person thereby affected; or

       (b) where the certificate provides for the issue of shares by the
            pertinent financial institution —

               (i) the pertinent financial institution must issue the
                   shares in accordance with the certificate; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            163

              (ii) the certificate has effect according to its tenor and is
                   binding on any person thereby affected.

 (7) Where the issue of shares under the certificate results in the
subscriber becoming a significant shareholder of the pertinent
financial institution, upon the coming into effect of the certificate,
the subscriber —

       (a) is treated as having obtained the approval of the Minister or
            the Authority (as the case may be) under the significant
            shareholder provisions applicable to the pertinent financial
            institution, in respect of the shares; and

       (b) is not required to make a take-over offer or to acquire the
            shares of the other shareholders of the pertinent financial
            institution, despite the provisions of the Companies
            Act 1967 or the Take‑over Code.

 (8) The pertinent financial institution must lodge a copy of the
certificate with the Registrar of Companies within 7 days after being
served the certificate.

 (9) A pertinent financial institution that or a subscriber who fails to
comply with any provision in the certificate shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
            to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
            part of a day during which the offence continues after
            conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

 (10) Where a person is charged with an offence under
subsection (9), it is a defence for the person to prove that —

       (a) the person was not aware that the person had contravened
            any provision in the certificate; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
164  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (b) the person has complied with the provision within a
            reasonable time after becoming aware of the
            contravention.

 (11) Except as provided in subsection (10), it is not a defence for a
person charged with an offence under subsection (9) that the person
did not intend to or did not knowingly contravene any provision in the
certificate.

 (12) A pertinent financial institution that contravenes
subsection (8), and every officer of the pertinent financial
institution who fails to take all reasonable steps to secure
compliance by the pertinent financial institution with that
subsection, shall each be guilty of an offence and shall each be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 and, in the case of
a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $200 for every
day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (13) Despite section 62(2) but subject to section 134, during the
period beginning on the date on which the Minister publishes the
notice under section 78(7) in the Gazette on the restructuring of the
share capital of a pertinent financial institution or (where the notice is
not published in the Gazette) the date on which the Authority
publishes the certificate under subsection (5) in the Gazette on the
restructuring of the share capital, and ending on the date on which the
certificate comes into effect —

       (a) no resolution may be passed, and no order may be made,
            for the winding up of the pertinent financial institution;

       (b) no judicial manager may be appointed under Part 7 of the
            Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
            relation to the pertinent financial institution;

       (c) no proceedings may be commenced or continued against
            the pertinent financial institution in respect of any business
            of the pertinent financial institution;

       (d) no enforcement order, distress or other legal process may
            be commenced, levied or continued against any property of
            the pertinent financial institution;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            165

       (e) no steps may be taken to enforce any security over any
            property of the pertinent financial institution; and

        (f) any sale, transfer, assignment or other disposition of any
            property of the pertinent financial institution is void,
            except for (where the pertinent financial institution is an
            insurer licensed under the Insurance Act 1966) any
            payment of claims to policy owners or claimants, other
            than policy owners who are related corporations of the
            pertinent financial institution.

 (14) In subsection (12), “officer”, in relation to a pertinent financial
institution, includes —

       (a) a director, a secretary or an executive officer of the
            pertinent financial institution;

       (b) a receiver or manager of any part of the undertaking of the
            pertinent financial institution appointed under a power
            contained in any instrument; and

       (c) a liquidator of the pertinent financial institution appointed
            in a voluntary winding up.

                       Division 6 — Bail-in powers

Interpretation of this Division

 80.—(1) In this Division, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “appointed date”, in relation to a bail‑in certificate, means the
         date appointed for the bail‑in certificate to take effect, as
         specified in the notification under section 84(2);

      “bail‑in certificate” means a bail-in certificate issued under
         section 84(1);

      “determination” means a determination made by the Authority
         under section 82(1);

      “Division 6 FI” or Division 6 financial institution, means a
         pertinent financial institution that belongs to a class of
         pertinent financial institutions prescribed by regulations
         made under section 135 as Division 6 financial institutions;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
166  NO. 18 OF 2022

      “eligible instrument” means an instrument or a liability within a
         class of instruments or liabilities that are prescribed by
         regulations made under section 135 as eligible instruments;

      “pre-resolution creditor” means any person who was a creditor
         of a Division 6 FI immediately before the date of publication
         in the Gazette of the bail‑in certificate;

      “pre-resolution shareholder” means any person who,
         immediately before the date of publication in the Gazette
         of the bail‑in certificate, held shares or other instrument
         conferring or representing a legal or beneficial ownership
         interest in a Division 6 FI;

      “resulting FI” or resulting financial institution, in relation to a
         Division 6 FI, means an entity established or incorporated to
         do one or both of the following:

              (a) temporarily hold and manage the assets and liabilities
                   of the Division 6 FI;

              (b) do any act for the orderly resolution of the Division 6
                   FI,

         and which issued or must issue a share or other similar
         instrument representing a legal or beneficial ownership
         interest, pursuant to a provision of a bail‑in certificate
         issued for that Division 6 FI;

      “significant shareholder”, in relation to a Division 6 FI or
         resulting FI, means any person falling within a description of
         shareholders of the Division 6 FI or resulting FI prescribed by
         regulations made under section 135 as its significant
         shareholders;

      “significant shareholder provision” means a provision of any
         written law that is prescribed by regulations made under
         section 135 as a significant shareholder provision.

 (2) For the purposes of this Division, a reference to cancelling an
eligible instrument includes cancelling the eligible instrument in
whole or in part.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            167

 (3) For the purposes of this Division, a reference to modifying,
converting, or changing the form of an eligible instrument is a
reference to —

       (a) converting the whole or a part of the eligible instrument
            from one form or class to another;

       (b) replacing the whole or a part of the eligible instrument with
            another instrument or liability of a different form or class;

       (c) creating a new instrument (of any form or class) or liability
            in connection with the modification of the eligible
            instrument; or

       (d) converting the whole or a part of the eligible instrument
            into shares or other similar instrument issued by a resulting
            FI.

Exercise of powers under this Division

 81.—(1) In exercising any power under this Division, the Authority
must have regard to the desirability of giving each pre‑resolution
creditor or pre‑resolution shareholder of a Division 6 FI the priority
and treatment the pre‑resolution creditor or pre‑resolution
shareholder would have enjoyed had the Division 6 FI been wound
up.

 (2) In determining whether to exercise its powers in accordance
with the priority and treatment a pre‑resolution creditor or
pre‑resolution shareholder of a Division 6 FI would have enjoyed
had the Division 6 FI been wound up, the Authority may consider the
following:

       (a) any widespread adverse impact that the Division 6 FI’s
            failure would have on the financial system in Singapore or
            the economy of Singapore, or both;

       (b) the need to maximise value for the benefit of all creditors
            of the Division 6 FI as a whole;

       (c) the public interest;

       (d) any other matter that the Authority considers relevant.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
168  NO. 18 OF 2022

 (3) Any exercise of a power under this Division does not prevent
the exercise of any other power of the Authority or the Minister under
this Act or the relevant Act applicable to the Division 6 FI or resulting
FI.

Determination by Authority

 82.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the Authority may make one or
more of the following determinations concerning one or more eligible
instruments issued by a Division 6 FI, or to which the Division 6 FI is
a party or is subject:

       (a) that the eligible instrument or instruments should be
            cancelled;

       (b) that the eligible instrument or instruments should be
            modified, converted or changed in form;

       (c) that the eligible instrument or instruments should have
            effect as if a right of modification, conversion or change of
            its or their form had been exercised.

 (2) The Authority may make the determination in subsection (1)
if —

       (a) any ground exists for the Authority to exercise any power
            under the relevant provisions applicable to the Division 6
            FI, whether or not the Authority has exercised the power;
            and

       (b) the Authority is of the opinion that —

               (i) the eligible instrument or instruments ought to be
                   bailed in to facilitate the orderly resolution of the
                   Division 6 FI; or

              (ii) the Division 6 FI’s available assets do not or are
                   unlikely to support payment of its liabilities, as they
                   become due and payable.

 (3) The Authority may, before making a determination, appoint one
or more persons —

       (a) to perform an independent assessment of the extent to
            which the acts mentioned in subsection (1)(a), (b) and (c)

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            169

            should be carried out for all or any eligible instruments;
            and

       (b) to provide to the Authority a report on the assessment.

 (4) The remuneration and expenses of any person appointed under
subsection (3) are to be paid by the Division 6 FI.

 (5) The Authority must serve a copy of any report provided under
subsection (3) on the Division 6 FI.

 (6) Upon making a determination, the Authority must submit the
determination to the Minister for approval.

Approval by Minister of determination

 83.—(1) Before approving a determination of the Authority, the
Minister must, unless the Minister decides that it is not practicable or
desirable to do so —

       (a) publish in the Gazette and in such newspaper or
            newspapers as the Minister determines, a notice
            specifying —

               (i) the Minister’s intention to approve the
                   determination;

              (ii) the date by which the holder of an eligible instrument
                   that is the subject of the determination may make
                   written representations to the Minister; and

             (iii) such other particulars as the Minister considers
                   appropriate; and

       (b) give to the Division 6 FI written notice specifying —

               (i) the Minister’s intention to approve the
                   determination;

              (ii) the date by which the Division 6 FI may make
                   written representations to the Minister; and

             (iii) such other particulars as the Minister considers
                   appropriate.

 (2) In determining the period within which written representations
have to be made under subsection (1), the Minister must take into

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
170  NO. 18 OF 2022

account the need for the measures proposed by the determination to
be effected expeditiously in the interest of the stability of the financial
system in Singapore.

 (3) The Minister must consider all written representations for the
purpose of deciding whether to approve the determination.

 (4) The Minister may —

       (a) approve the determination without modification;

       (b) approve the determination subject to any modification the
            Minister considers appropriate; or

       (c) refuse to approve the determination.

 (5) An approval under subsection (4)(a) or (b) may be subject to
such conditions as the Minister may determine to be necessary to give
effect to the determination, and the Minister may add to, vary or
revoke any such condition.

 (6) The Division 6 FI must comply with every condition mentioned
in subsection (5) that applies to it and of which it has been given
written notice by the Authority.

 (7) A person that contravenes subsection (6) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Bail-in certificate

 84.—(1) If the Minister approves a determination, the Minister
must, as soon as practicable, issue a bail‑in certificate.

 (2) The bail-in certificate comes into effect on such date as the
Minister appoints by notification in the Gazette.

 (3) The bail-in certificate may make provision for one or more of
the following:

       (a) the cancellation of one or more eligible instruments;

       (b) the modification, conversion, or change in form of one or
            more eligible instruments;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            171

       (c) that one or more eligible instruments is or are to have effect
            as if a right of modification, conversion or change of its or
            their form had been exercised under it or them;

       (d) where provision under paragraph (c) is made, the details of
            the modification, conversion or change of the form of the
            eligible instrument or instruments;

       (e) incidental, consequential and supplementary matters,
            including a requirement that the Division 6 FI or any
            other person must comply with a general or specific
            direction set out in the certificate.

 (4) The bail-in certificate must include such information as may be
prescribed by regulations made under section 135.

 (5) The bail-in certificate may —

       (a) make provision generally or only for specified purposes,
            cases or circumstances; and

       (b) make different provision for different purposes, cases or
            circumstances.

 (6) The Minister may, at any time before the appointed date, add to,
vary or revoke any matter specified in the bail-in certificate.

 (7) On or before the appointed date, the Authority must cause the
bail-in certificate and every addition, variation or revocation
mentioned in subsection (6) to be —

       (a) served on the Division 6 FI; and

       (b) published in the Gazette and in such newspaper or
            newspapers as the Minister may determine.

Effects of bail-in certificate

 85.—(1) A provision in a bail-in certificate has effect despite any
restriction arising by reason of contract, any written law or rule of law
in force before the appointed date of the bail‑in certificate, or the
constitution of the Division 6 FI.

 (2) Where a bail-in certificate provides for the cancellation of an
eligible instrument —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
172  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (a) the cancellation takes effect without other or further act by
            the Division 6 FI; and

       (b) the bail-in certificate has effect according to its tenor and is
            binding on any person affected by it.

 (3) Where a bail-in certificate provides for the modification,
conversion, or change in form of an eligible instrument —

       (a) the modification, conversion, or change in form takes
            effect without other or further act by the Division 6 FI or
            resulting FI; and

       (b) the bail-in certificate has effect according to its tenor and is
            binding on any person affected by it.

 (4) Where a bail-in certificate provides that an eligible instrument is
to have effect as if a specified right had been exercised under it —

       (a) the eligible instrument has effect as if the specified right
            had been exercised under it without other or further act by
            the Division 6 FI or resulting FI; and

       (b) the bail-in certificate has effect according to its tenor and is
            binding on any person affected by it.

 (5) A reference in subsections (1), (2), (3) and (4) to anything taking
or having effect is a reference to that thing taking or having effect
from (and including) the appointed date.

 (6) A person that fails to comply with any direction given to the
person in the bail-in certificate shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
            to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
            part of a day during which the offence continues after
            conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            173

 (7) Where a person is charged with an offence under subsection (6),
it is a defence for the person to prove that —

       (a) the person was not aware of the contravention of the
            direction; and

       (b) the person complied with the direction within a reasonable
            time after becoming aware of the contravention.

 (8) Except as provided in subsection (7), it is not a defence for the
person mentioned in that subsection that the person did not intend to
or did not knowingly contravene the direction.

Moratorium

 86.—(1) Despite section 62(2) but subject to section 134, during
the period beginning on the date of publication of the notice in
section 83(1)(a) in the Gazette or (where the notice is not published in
the Gazette) the date of publication of the bail‑in certificate in the
Gazette under section 84(7), and ending on the appointed date of the
bail‑in certificate —

       (a) no resolution may be passed, and no order may be made,
            for the winding up of the Division 6 FI;

       (b) no judicial manager may be appointed under Part 7 of the
            Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
            relation to the Division 6 FI;

       (c) no civil proceedings may be commenced or continued
            against the Division 6 FI in respect of any business of the
            Division 6 FI;

       (d) no enforcement order, distress or other legal process may
            be commenced, levied or continued against any property of
            the Division 6 FI;

       (e) no steps may be taken to enforce any security over any
            property of the Division 6 FI; and

        (f) any sale, transfer, assignment or other disposition of any
            property of the Division 6 FI is void, except for (where the
            pertinent financial institution is an insurer licensed under
            the Insurance Act 1966) any payment of claims to policy

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
174  NO. 18 OF 2022

            owners or claimants, other than policy owners who are
            related corporations of the Division 6 FI.

 (2) No shareholder of a Division 6 FI or resulting FI may exercise
any voting power in the Division 6 FI or resulting FI during the period
beginning on —

       (a) the date the notice in section 83(1)(a) is published in the
            Gazette; or

       (b) where that notice is not published in the Gazette, the date
            the bail‑in certificate is published in the Gazette under
            section 84(7),

and ending on the date on which the Minister publishes a notice in the
Gazette that this subsection ceases to apply.

 (3) Subsection (2) has effect despite anything in the Companies
Act 1967 or the constitution of the Division 6 FI or resulting FI.

Significant shareholder by reason of bail-in certificate

 87.—(1) Where any person becomes a significant shareholder of a
Division 6 FI or resulting FI as a result of a provision of a bail‑in
certificate, that person —

       (a) is treated as having obtained the approval of the Minister or
            the Authority (as the case may be) under the significant
            shareholder provisions applicable to the Division 6 FI or
            resulting FI, in respect of the person becoming a significant
            shareholder; and

       (b) is not required to make a take-over offer or to acquire the
            shares of the other shareholders of the Division 6 FI or
            resulting FI (as the case may be), despite anything in the
            Companies Act 1967 or the Take‑over Code.

 (2) The person mentioned in subsection (1) must comply with such
conditions as the Minister may reasonably impose on the person,
including but not limited to the following:

       (a) a condition restricting the person’s disposal or further
            acquisition of shares or voting power in the Division 6 FI
            or resulting FI, as the case may be;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            175

       (b) a condition restricting the person’s exercise of voting
            power in the Division 6 FI or resulting FI, as the case may
            be.

 (3) The Minister may, at any time, add to, vary or revoke any
condition imposed under this subsection or subsection (2).

 (4) Any condition imposed under subsection (2) or (3) has effect
despite anything in the Companies Act 1967 or the constitution of the
Division 6 FI or resulting FI.

 (5) Despite subsection (1)(a), the Minister may serve a written
notice on the person mentioned in subsection (1) if —

       (a) the Authority is not satisfied that —

               (i) the person is, in accordance with the Guidelines on
                   Fit and Proper Criteria, a fit and proper person to be a
                   significant shareholder; and

              (ii) having regard to the likely influence of the person on
                   it, the Division 6 FI or resulting FI will or will
                   continue to conduct its business prudently and
                   comply with the provisions of this Act and the
                   relevant Act applicable to it; or

       (b) the Minister is not satisfied that —

               (i) in a case where the Division 6 FI or resulting FI is a
                   bank incorporated in Singapore, it is in the national
                   interest for the person to remain a significant
                   shareholder of the Division 6 FI or resulting FI, as
                   the case may be; or

              (ii) in any other case, it is in the public interest for the
                   person to remain a significant shareholder of the
                   Division 6 FI or resulting FI, as the case may be.

 (6) The written notice in subsection (5) is one that requires the
person to take such steps within a reasonable time as are necessary to
cease to be a significant shareholder of the Division 6 FI or resulting
FI, as the case may be.

 (7) Before serving the notice in subsection (5), the Minister must
(unless the Minister decides that it is not practicable or desirable to do

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
176  NO. 18 OF 2022

so) cause to be given to the person a written notice of the Minister’s
intention to serve the notice in that subsection, and specifying a date
by which the person may make written representations.

 (8) Upon receipt of any written representation, the Minister must
consider the written representation for the purpose of determining
whether to serve the notice in subsection (5).

 (9) Where the Minister has served a notice in subsection (5) on a
person, then, until the person has disposed of or transferred the shares
specified in the notice and in accordance with the notice —

       (a) no voting rights are exercisable in respect of the specified
            shares except with the permission of the Minister, whether
            or not a notice under section 86(2) is published that the
            provision has ceased to apply;

       (b) no shares of the Division 6 FI or resulting FI (as the case
            may be) may be issued or offered (whether by way of
            rights, bonus or otherwise) in respect of the specified
            shares except with the permission of the Minister; and

       (c) except in a liquidation of the Division 6 FI or resulting FI
            (as the case may be), the Division 6 FI or resulting FI may
            not make any payment (whether by way of dividends or
            otherwise) in respect of the specified shares except with the
            permission of the Minister.

 (10) Subsection (9) has effect despite anything in the Companies
Act 1967 or the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
or the constitution of the Division 6 FI or resulting FI.

Directions for disposal

 88.—(1) If the Minister is satisfied that any person has failed to
comply with a condition imposed on the person in section 87(2) or
(3), or if the Minister has served a notice on the person in
section 87(5), the Minister may, by written notice —

       (a) direct the transfer or disposal of all or any of the shares in
            the Division 6 FI or resulting FI held by the person within
            such time and in such manner as the Minister considers
            appropriate;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            177

       (b) restrict the transfer or disposal of those shares; or

       (c) make such other direction as the Minister considers
            appropriate.

 (2) Any person to whom a notice is given under subsection (1) must
comply with each direction specified in the notice.

Offence

 89. A person that fails to comply with a condition imposed on the
person in section 87(2) or (3), or a notice served on the person in
section 87(5) or 88(1), shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
            further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or part of
            a day during which the offence continues after conviction;
            or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

Restriction on eligible instruments

 90.—(1) To ensure the effective operation of the provisions of this
Division on an eligible instrument, regulations made under
section 135 may impose a requirement on a Division 6 FI to
ensure that the contract governing the eligible instrument contains a
provision to the effect that the parties to the contract agree for the
eligible instrument to be the subject of a bail‑in certificate.

 (2) The regulations made under section 135 may —

       (a) specify the eligible instruments or class of eligible
            instruments, and Division 6 FI or class of Division 6 FIs,
            to which the requirement applies;

       (b) require a Division 6 FI bound by the requirement to
            provide a legal opinion as to the enforceability of the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
178  NO. 18 OF 2022

         provision required to be included in the contract in a
         specified jurisdiction; and

     (c) provide for incidental, consequential or transitional
         matters.

                     Division 7 — Termination rights

Interpretation of this Division

 91. In this Division, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “approved clearing house” has the meaning given by
         section 2(1) of the Securities and Futures Act 2001;

      “basic substantive obligation”, in relation to a contract, means
         an obligation provided by the contract for payment, delivery
         or the provision of collateral;

      “business day” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
         Banking Act 1970;

      “designated payment system” has the meaning given by
         section 2(1) of the Payment Services Act 2019;

      “foreign resolution” means any action by a foreign resolution
         authority of a foreign country or territory to do either or both
         of the following:

              (a) to maintain financial stability;

              (b) to deal with any serious problem in a financial
                   institution of that country or territory which affects
                   the ability of the financial institution to continue its
                   business or operations as a financial institution, and
                   which, if not dealt with, may cause the financial
                   institution to be no longer able to continue its
                   business or operations as a financial institution;

      “foreign resolution authority”, in relation to a foreign country or
         territory, means an authority of the foreign country or
         territory which, whether alone or together with one or
         more other authorities of the foreign country or territory, is

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            179

   responsible for a foreign resolution, or for preparing plans for
   a foreign resolution;

“group of companies”, in relation to a pertinent financial
   institution, means —

        (a) the pertinent financial institution;

        (b) the entities that are subsidiaries of the pertinent
             financial institution; and

        (c) the entity that is the holding company of the pertinent
             financial institution, and the entities that are
             subsidiaries of that holding company;

“operator” and “settlement institution” have the meanings given
   by section 2(1) of the Payment Services Act 2019;

“reinsurance contract” means any contract or arrangement
   involving the reinsurance of liabilities under insurance
   policies;

“resolution measure” means —

        (a) the making of a determination under Division 2, 4, 5,
             6 or 9, the issue of any certificate under Division 2, 4,
             5 or 6, the making of an order under Division 9, or the
             exercise of any power under any such certificate or
             order; or

        (b) the exercise of any power under any relevant
             provision applicable to the pertinent financial
             institution concerned;

“termination right” means —

        (a) a right to terminate a contract;

        (b) a right to accelerate, close out, set off or net an
             obligation under a contract that would result in a
             suspension or modification or the extinguishment of
             the obligation;

        (c) a right to suspend, modify or extinguish an obligation
             of a party to a contract; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
180  NO. 18 OF 2022

              (d) in the case of a reinsurance contract, a right of the
                   reinsurer to terminate or not to reinstate coverage
                   under the contract.

Effect of resolution measure on contracts where substantive
obligations continue to be performed

 92.—(1) This section applies to a contract that satisfies both of the
following:

       (a) one of the parties to the contract is —

               (i) a pertinent financial institution that is the subject of a
                   resolution measure; or

              (ii) an entity that is part of the same group of companies
                   as that of a pertinent financial institution where —

                    (A) the pertinent financial institution is the subject
                          of a resolution measure; and

                     (B) the obligations of the entity under the contract
                          are guaranteed or otherwise supported by the
                          pertinent financial institution;

       (b) the substantive obligations of the contract (including all
            applicable basic substantive obligations) continue to be
            performed by the parties to the contract.

 (2) Despite any rule of law, written law or contract —

       (a) the resolution measure, and the occurrence of any event
            directly linked to it, are to be disregarded in determining
            the applicability of a provision in the contract enabling a
            party to exercise a termination right; and

       (b) any purported exercise of that termination right in reliance
            on that provision in the contract on the basis of either of
            those grounds in paragraph (a) has no effect.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1)(b), a basic substantive
obligation of a pertinent financial institution (being an approved
clearing house or an operator or a settlement institution of a
designated payment system) under a contract is not considered to
be no longer performed, by reason only that the pertinent financial

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            181

institution allocates any loss to its participants, or uses collateral
provided by or on behalf of its participants —

       (a) under its margin rules or default arrangements; or

       (b) pursuant to a resolution measure.

Right to temporarily suspend termination right for contracts
because of resolution measure

 93.—(1) This section applies to a contract one of the parties to
which is —

       (a) a pertinent financial institution that is the subject or
            proposed subject of a resolution measure;

       (b) a pertinent financial institution in respect of which a
            foreign resolution authority of a foreign country or
            territory has carried out, or has informed the Authority
            that it has grounds to carry out, a foreign resolution; or

       (c) an entity that is part of the same group of companies as that
            of a pertinent financial institution where —

               (i) the pertinent financial institution is the subject or
                   proposed subject of a resolution measure;

              (ii) the contract has a termination right that is exercisable
                   if the pertinent financial institution becomes
                   insolvent or is in a certain financial condition; and

             (iii) the obligations of the entity under the contract are
                   guaranteed or otherwise supported by the pertinent
                   financial institution.

 (2) The Authority may, by written notice to the parties to the
contract, suspend the exercise of any termination right in the contract
for a specified period.

 (3) The notice under subsection (2) does not apply to —

       (a) a termination right under the contract which becomes
            exercisable for a breach of a basic substantive obligation
            only;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
182  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (b) a termination right under a contract between the pertinent
            financial institution and a person prescribed for the
            purposes of this paragraph by regulations made under
            section 135; or

       (c) a termination right under a contract, or a contract within a
            class of contracts, prescribed for the purposes of this
            paragraph by regulations made under section 135.

 (4) When exercising a power under subsection (2), the Authority
must have regard to its impact on the safe and orderly functioning of
the financial market and financial market infrastructures operating in
Singapore.

 (5) The notice under subsection (2) —

       (a) may relate to all or any class or description of parties to a
            contract;

       (b) may make different provisions for different classes or
            descriptions of parties to a contract; and

       (c) may be of general or specific application.

 (6) A copy of the notice under subsection (2) must be published —

       (a) by the Authority in the Gazette and on its website; and

       (b) by the pertinent financial institution on its website.

 (7) In this section, a pertinent financial institution is a proposed
subject of a resolution measure if the Authority is satisfied that there
is a basis for that action under section 59 in relation to that pertinent
financial institution.

When suspension takes effect

 94.—(1) A suspension by a notice under section 93 takes effect
from (and including) the time of publication of the notice under that
section in the Gazette or a time on another date specified in the notice,
and —

       (a) if the contract is not a reinsurance contract, expires no later
            than the same time on the second business day after —

               (i) the date of publication of the notice; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            183

              (ii) the other date specified in the notice,

       (a) as the case may be; or

       (b) if the contract is a reinsurance contract, expires no later
            than the time and date prescribed for the purposes of this
            paragraph by regulations made under section 135.

 (2) During the period of suspension of a termination right under a
contract and despite any provision of any rule of law, written law or
contract, any purported exercise of that right has no effect.

 (3) A person whose termination right under a contract is suspended
under section 93 may (in accordance with the terms of the contract)
exercise that right before the expiry of the suspension if the Authority
gives the person written notice that the person may exercise that right
because —

       (a) the contract does not or will not form part of the business of
            the pertinent financial institution to be transferred under
            section 67; or

       (b) the Authority has decided not to make a determination
            under Division 6 in relation to the pertinent financial
            institution.

 (4) On the expiry of the period of suspension under section 93 of a
termination right under a contract, the person who holds that right
may (if it had not already been exercised under subsection (3))
exercise that right in accordance with the terms of the contract, but
not on any of the following grounds:

       (a) a resolution measure taken in relation to the pertinent
            financial institution;

       (b) the occurrence of an event directly linked to such
            resolution measure;

       (c) if the contract forms part of any business of the pertinent
            financial institution that has been transferred to another
            person pursuant to a certificate of transfer under section 67
            or an onward transfer certificate under section 73, any act
            of the pertinent financial institution before the transfer;

       (d) the suspension itself.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
184  NO. 18 OF 2022

             Division 8 — Assistance to foreign resolution
                   authorities and domestic authorities

Interpretation of this Division

 95. In this Division, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “domestic authority” —

              (a) means any ministry or department of the
                   Government, any Organ of State in Singapore and
                   any statutory body (other than the Authority)
                   established by a public Act for a public function; and

              (b) includes the company designated to be the deposit
                   insurance and policy owners’ protection fund agency
                   under section 56 of the Deposit Insurance and Policy
                   Owners’ Protection Schemes Act 2011;

      “foreign resolution authority” means an authority of a foreign
         country or territory which, whether alone or together with
         one or more other authorities of the foreign country or
         territory, is responsible for the resolution, or for preparing
         plans for dealing with the resolution, of a financial
         institution;

      “material” includes any information, book, document or other
         record in any form whatsoever, and any container or article
         relating thereto;

      “prescribed written law” means the following Acts and the
         subsidiary legislation made under those Acts:

              (a) this Act;

              (b) the Banking Act 1970;

              (c) the Business Trusts Act 2004;

              (d) the Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners’ Protection
                   Schemes Act 2011;

              (e) the Finance Companies Act 1967;

              (f) the Financial Advisers Act 2001;

              (g) the Financial Holding Companies Act 2013;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            185

              (h) the Insurance Act 1966;

              (i) the Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970;

              (j) the Payment Services Act 2019;

              (k) the Securities and Futures Act 2001;

              (l) the Trust Companies Act 2005;

             (m) such other Act or Acts as may be prescribed by
                   regulations made under section 135;

      “resolution” means any action by an authority (being an
         authority charged with responsibility for such action) to do
         either or both of the following:

              (a) to maintain financial stability;

              (b) to deal with any serious problem in a financial
                   institution which affects the ability of the financial
                   institution to continue its business or operations as a
                   financial institution, and which, if not dealt with, may
                   cause the financial institution to be no longer able to
                   continue its business or operations as a financial
                   institution.

Conditions for provision of assistance to foreign resolution
authority

 96.—(1) The Authority may provide the assistance referred to in
section 98 to a foreign resolution authority, if the Authority is
satisfied that all of the following conditions are fulfilled:

       (a) the request by the foreign resolution authority for
            assistance is received by the Authority on or after the
            date of commencement of this Part;

       (b) the assistance is intended to enable the foreign resolution
            authority, or any other authority of the foreign country or
            territory, to deal with the resolution of a financial
            institution;

       (c) the foreign resolution authority has given a written
            undertaking not to use any material or copy of any

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
186  NO. 18 OF 2022

            material obtained pursuant to its request for any purpose
            other than a purpose that is specified in the request and
            approved by the Authority;

       (d) the foreign resolution authority has given a written
            undertaking not to disclose to a third party (other than a
            designated third party of the foreign country or territory in
            accordance with paragraph (e)) any material or copy of any
            material obtained pursuant to the request, unless the
            foreign resolution authority is compelled to do so by the
            law or a court of the foreign country or territory;

       (e) the foreign resolution authority has given a written
            undertaking to obtain the prior consent of the Authority
            before disclosing any material received pursuant to the
            request to a designated third party, and to make such
            disclosure only in accordance with such conditions as may
            be imposed by the Authority;

        (f) the material requested for is of sufficient importance to the
            resolution of a financial institution and cannot reasonably
            be obtained by any other means;

       (g) the matter to which the request relates is of sufficient
            gravity;

       (h) the rendering of assistance will not be contrary to the
            public interest or the interests of the affected persons of the
            financial institution.

 (2) In subsection (1)(d) and (e), “designated third party”, in relation
to a foreign country or territory, means such person in, or body or
authority of, the foreign country or territory as the Authority may
approve, upon an application to the Authority, if the Authority is
satisfied that the disclosure —

       (a) is necessary in the interests of the resolution of a financial
            institution; and

       (b) is necessary for the performance of the duties and functions
            of that person, body or authority, as the case may be.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            187

Other factors to consider for provision of assistance to foreign
resolution authority

 97. In deciding whether to grant a request for assistance referred to
in section 98 from a foreign resolution authority, the Authority may
also have regard to the following:

       (a) whether the foreign resolution authority is preparing plans
            for dealing with the resolution of any financial institution,
            or is in the process of determining whether to exercise, or is
            exercising, any resolution powers in relation to the
            financial institution;

       (b) whether the foreign resolution authority has given or is
            willing to give an undertaking to the Authority to comply
            with a future request by the Authority to the foreign
            resolution authority for similar assistance;

       (c) whether the foreign resolution authority has given or is
            willing to give an undertaking to the Authority to
            contribute towards the costs of providing the assistance
            that the foreign resolution authority has requested for.

Assistance that may be rendered to foreign resolution authority

 98.—(1) Despite the provisions of any prescribed written law or
any requirement imposed thereunder or any rule of law, the Authority
or any person authorised by the Authority may, in relation to a request
by a foreign resolution authority for assistance —

       (a) transmit to the foreign resolution authority any material in
            the Authority’s possession that is requested by the foreign
            resolution authority or a copy of the material;

       (b) order any person to provide to the Authority any material
            that is requested by the foreign resolution authority or a
            copy of the material, and transmit the material or copy to
            the foreign resolution authority;

       (c) order any person to make an oral statement to the Authority
            on any information requested by the foreign resolution
            authority, record such statement, and transmit the recorded
            statement to the foreign resolution authority; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
188  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (d) request any ministry or department of the Government, or
            any statutory authority in Singapore, to provide to the
            Authority any material that is requested by the foreign
            resolution authority or a copy of the material, and transmit
            the material or copy to the foreign resolution authority.

 (2) An order under subsection (1)(b) or (c) has effect despite any
obligation as to secrecy or other restriction upon the disclosure of
information imposed by any prescribed written law or any
requirement imposed thereunder, any rule of law, any contract or
any rule of professional conduct.

 (3) Nothing in this section compels an advocate and solicitor, or a
legal counsel referred to in section 128A of the Evidence Act 1893, to
provide or transmit any material or copy of any material that contains,
or to disclose, a privileged communication made by or to him or her
in that capacity.

 (4) An advocate and solicitor, or a legal counsel referred to in
section 128A of the Evidence Act 1893, who refuses to provide or
transmit any material or copy of any material that contains, or to
disclose, any privileged communication is nevertheless obliged to
give the name and address (if he or she knows them) of the person to
whom, or by or on behalf of whom, the privileged communication
was made.

 (5) A person is not excused from making an oral statement pursuant
to an order made under subsection (1)(c) on the ground that the
statement might tend to incriminate the person but, where the person
claims before making the statement that the statement might tend to
incriminate the person, that statement is not admissible in evidence
against the person in criminal proceedings other than proceedings for
an offence under section 100.

Assistance to domestic authority

 99.—(1) Despite any obligation as to secrecy or other restriction
upon the disclosure of information imposed by any prescribed written
law or any requirement imposed thereunder, any rule of law, any
contract or any rule of professional conduct, the Authority may, on
the Authority’s own motion or upon receiving a written request from

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            189

a domestic authority for any material in relation to the resolution of a
specified financial institution, transmit to the domestic authority any
such material that is in the Authority’s possession or a copy of the
material.

 (2) In deciding whether to transmit any material to a domestic
authority under subsection (1), the Authority may have regard to the
following:

       (a) whether the assistance is intended to enable the domestic
            authority —

               (i) to prepare plans for dealing with the resolution of a
                   specified financial institution;

              (ii) to avoid having to exercise any resolution powers in
                   relation to a specified financial institution; or

             (iii) to determine whether or when to exercise resolution
                   powers in relation to a specified financial institution;

       (b) whether the domestic authority has given or is willing to
            give a written undertaking not to use —

               (i) any material or copy of any material obtained
                   pursuant to its request for any purpose other than a
                   purpose that is specified in the request and approved
                   by the Authority; or

              (ii) any material or copy of any material transmitted by
                   the Authority on its own motion for any purpose
                   other than a purpose that is specified by the
                   Authority;

       (c) whether the domestic authority has given a written
            undertaking not to disclose to a third party any material
            or copy of any material obtained pursuant to the request or
            transmitted by the Authority on its own motion, unless the
            domestic authority is compelled to do so by the law or the
            Court.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
190  NO. 18 OF 2022

Offences under this Division

 100. Any person who —

       (a) without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to comply with
            an order under section 98(1)(b) or (c);

       (b) in purported compliance with an order made under
            section 98(1)(b), provides to the Authority any material,
            or copy of any material, known to the person to be false or
            misleading in a material particular;

       (c) in purported compliance with an order made under
            section 98(1)(c), makes a statement to the Authority that
            is false or misleading in a material particular;

       (d) without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to comply with
            section 98(4); or

       (e) in purported compliance with section 98(4), provides to the
            Authority any information, or copy of any information,
            known to the person to be false or misleading in a material
            particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

Immunity for providing material, etc.

 101.—(1) No liability, other than for an offence under section 100,
shall lie against any person for —

       (a) providing to the Authority any material or copy of any
            material, if the person had provided that material or copy
            with reasonable care and in good faith and in compliance
            with an order made under section 98(1)(b);

       (b) making a statement to the Authority with reasonable care
            and in good faith and in compliance with an order made
            under section 98(1)(c); or

       (c) doing or omitting to do any act, if the person had done or
            omitted to do the act with reasonable care and in good faith

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            191

            and as a result of complying with an order made under
            section 98(1)(b) or (c).

 (2) Any person who complies with an order made under
section 98(1)(b) or (c) is not to be treated as being in breach of any
restriction upon the disclosure of information or thing imposed by
any prescribed written law or any requirement imposed thereunder,
any rule of law, any contract or any rule of professional conduct.

            Division 9 — Recognition of foreign resolutions

Interpretation of this Division

 102.—(1) In this Division, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “determination” means a determination made under section 103;

      “foreign financial institution” means a financial institution
         incorporated, formed or established in a foreign country or
         territory that has —

              (a) a branch located in Singapore; or

              (b) a subsidiary incorporated in Singapore,

         that is approved, authorised, designated, recognised,
         registered, licensed or otherwise regulated by the Authority
         under this Act or any other MAS scheduled Act;

      “foreign resolution” means any action by a foreign resolution
         authority of a foreign country or territory to do either or both
         of the following:

              (a) to maintain financial stability;

              (b) to deal with any serious problem in a foreign
                   financial institution of that country or territory
                   which affects the ability of the foreign financial
                   institution to continue its business or operations as a
                   foreign financial institution, and which, if not dealt
                   with, may cause the foreign financial institution to be
                   no longer able to continue its business or operations
                   as a foreign financial institution;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
192  NO. 18 OF 2022

      “foreign resolution authority”, in relation to a foreign country or
         territory, means an authority of that country or territory
         which, whether alone or together with one or more other
         authorities of that country or territory, is responsible for a
         foreign resolution, or for preparing plans for a foreign
         resolution;

      “Singapore creditor”, in relation to a foreign financial
         institution, means —

              (a) a creditor of the foreign financial institution, in
                   respect of a liability incurred by the operations of its
                   branch located in Singapore; or

              (b) a creditor of a subsidiary incorporated in Singapore
                   of the foreign financial institution;

      “Singapore shareholder”, in relation to a foreign financial
         institution, means the holder of shares or similar instruments
         of a subsidiary incorporated in Singapore of the foreign
         financial institution.

 (2) The exercise of any power under this Division does not prevent
the exercise of any other power of the Minister or the Authority under
this Act or the relevant Act applicable to the foreign financial
institution or the subsidiary incorporated in Singapore of a foreign
financial institution, as the case may be.

Determination over foreign resolution

 103.—(1) This section applies where a foreign resolution authority
of a foreign country or territory makes a request to the Authority to
recognise a foreign resolution in relation to a foreign financial
institution by the foreign resolution authority.

 (2) The Authority must make a determination that —

       (a) the foreign resolution should be recognised in whole or in
            part; or

       (b) the foreign resolution should not be recognised.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            193

 (3) The Authority may make a determination that the foreign
resolution should be recognised in whole or in part if it is satisfied that
all of the following conditions are fulfilled:

       (a) recognition of the foreign resolution or part would not have
            a widespread adverse effect on the financial system in
            Singapore or the economy of Singapore, whether or not
            that effect occurs directly or indirectly as a result of the
            effects of recognising the resolution or part;

       (b) recognition of the foreign resolution or part would not
            result in inequitable treatment of any Singapore creditor
            relative to any other creditor of the foreign financial
            institution with similar rights, or of any Singapore
            shareholder relative to any shareholder of the foreign
            financial institution;

       (c) recognition of the foreign resolution or part would not be
            contrary to the national interest or public interest;

       (d) recognition of the foreign resolution or part would not have
            material fiscal implications for Singapore;

       (e) any other condition that is prescribed by regulations made
            under section 135 for the purposes of this paragraph.

 (4) Upon making a determination, the Authority must submit the
determination to the Minister for approval.

 (5) The Minister may —

       (a) approve the determination without modification;

       (b) approve the determination subject to any modification the
            Minister considers appropriate; or

       (c) refuse to approve the determination.

 (6) The Minister must not approve the determination under
subsection (5)(a) or (b) unless the Minister is satisfied that all of
the conditions mentioned in subsection (3) are fulfilled.

 (7) An approval under subsection (5)(a) or (b) is subject to such
conditions as the Minister may determine to be necessary to give

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
194  NO. 18 OF 2022

effect to the determination, and the Minister may add to, vary or
revoke any condition.

 (8) Any person to which a condition mentioned in subsection (7)
applies, and who has been given written notice of that condition by
the Authority, must comply with the condition.

 (9) A person that contravenes subsection (8) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Order to give effect to foreign resolution

 104.—(1) If the Minister approves a determination that a foreign
resolution should be recognised in whole or in part, the Minister
must, as soon as practicable, by order in the Gazette, declare that the
foreign resolution is to be recognised.

 (2) The order may make provision for any of the following matters,
to take effect from a date specified in the order:

       (a) matters that may be set out in a certificate of transfer
            pursuant to section 67(3);

       (b) matters that may be set out in a certificate of transfer of
            shares pursuant to section 76(3);

       (c) matters that may be set out in a certificate of restructuring
            of share capital pursuant to section 79(3);

       (d) matters that may be set out in a bail-in certificate pursuant
            to section 84(3).

 (3) The matters mentioned in subsection (2)(a), (b), (c) and (d) may
be modified for the purposes of giving effect to the foreign resolution.

 (4) To avoid doubt, provision may be made in the order for matters
mentioned in subsection (2)(d) affecting instruments or liabilities
entered into or accruing before the effective date of the order.

 (5) With effect from the effective date of the order, sections 67(8) to
(20) and 68, 76(6) to (13), 79(6) to (14), or 85 to 89 (as the case may
be), together with the regulations that are made under section 135 for

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            195

the purpose of implementing those provisions, apply in relation to an
order that provides for the matters mentioned in paragraph (a), (b), (c)
or (d) of subsection (2), as they apply in relation to the certificate
mentioned in that paragraph.

 (6) The provisions of this Act mentioned in subsection (5) apply
subject to such modifications as the order may prescribe.

Directions

 105. The Authority may, from time to time, issue such directions to
any person that is approved, authorised, designated, recognised,
registered, licensed or otherwise regulated by the Authority under this
Act or any other MAS scheduled Act, as the Authority considers
necessary for the purposes of giving full effect to the order mentioned
in section 104.

Offence

 106.—(1) A person that refuses or fails to comply with a provision
of the order under section 104 that applies to the person, or a direction
issued to the person under section 105, shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
            to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
            part of a day during which the offence continues after
            conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

 (2) Where a person is charged with an offence under subsection (1),
it is a defence for the person to prove that —

       (a) the person was not aware of the contravention of the
            provision of the order or the direction; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
196  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (b) the person has complied with the provision of the order or
            the direction within a reasonable time after becoming
            aware of the contravention.

 (3) Except as provided in subsection (2), it is not a defence for a
person charged with an offence under subsection (1) that the person
did not intend to or did not knowingly contravene the provision of the
order or the direction.

                    Division 10 — Resolution funding

Interpretation of this Division

 107. In this Division, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Agency” means the company designated by the Minister under
         section 56 of the Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners’
         Protection Schemes Act 2011 as the deposit insurance and
         policy owners’ protection fund agency;

      “DI Fund” means the Deposit Insurance Fund reconstituted
         under section 9 of the Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners’
         Protection Schemes Act 2011;

      “financial institution” means any person that is approved,
         authorised, designated, recognised, registered, licensed or
         otherwise regulated by the Authority under this Act or any
         other MAS scheduled Act;

      “financial institution under resolution” —

              (a) means the pertinent financial institution that is the
                   subject of a resolution measure; and

              (b) in relation to a resolution fund, means the pertinent
                   financial institution that is the subject of the
                   resolution measure for which the fund is established;

      “market infrastructure” means a pertinent financial institution
         that performs the functions of —

              (a) a market;

              (b) a central clearing counterparty;

              (c) a trade repository;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            197

        (d) a central securities depository; or

        (e) a securities settlement system;

“participant” —

        (a) in relation to a market infrastructure, means a
             participant of the market infrastructure, and
             includes a client of such participant; and

        (b) in relation to a payment system operator, means a
             participant of the payment system (within the
             meaning of the Payment Services Act 2019)
             operated by the payment system operator;

“payment system operator” means a person who operates a
   payment system within the meaning of the Payment Services
   Act 2019;

“provisional entity”, in relation to a resolution fund, means an
   entity established or incorporated to do one or more of the
   following:

        (a) temporarily hold and manage the assets and liabilities
             of the financial institution under resolution;

        (b) to be the transferee of any part of the business of the
             financial institution under resolution under
             Division 2;

        (c) do any other act for the orderly resolution of the
             financial institution under resolution;

“resolution fund” means a fund established under section 108;

“resolution measure” means —

        (a) the making of a determination under Division 2, 3, 4,
             5, 6 or 9, the issue of any certificate under Division 2,
             3, 4, 5 or 6, the making of an order under Division 9,
             or the exercise of any power under any such
             certificate or order; or

        (b) the exercise of any power under any relevant
             provision applicable to the financial institution
             concerned;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
198  NO. 18 OF 2022

      “resolution measure”, in relation to a resolution fund, means the
         resolution measure or measures for which the fund was
         established;

      “similar financial institution” means a financial institution that is
         prescribed by regulations made under section 135 for the
         purposes of section 111(1)(b)(i), as belonging to the same
         category as the financial institution under resolution;

      “trustee”, in relation to a resolution fund, means the entity
         appointed under section 108(2) as the trustee of the resolution
         fund.

Establishment of resolution fund

 108.—(1) For the purposes of supporting a resolution measure
undertaken for a financial institution and other matters relating to the
measure, the Minister may, on the recommendation of the Authority,
establish a resolution fund.

 (2) The Minister must appoint a body corporate or unincorporate
established or incorporated in Singapore, or established under any
Act, to be the trustee of the resolution fund.

 (3) The Authority must publish a notification in the Gazette and in
such newspaper or newspapers as the Minister determines, of the
establishment of a resolution fund and the trustee of the resolution
fund.

 (4) The trustee of a resolution fund may obtain a loan from the
Authority for the purpose of constituting the fund.

 (5) In addition to the loan in subsection (4), the following are to be
paid into a resolution fund:

       (a) all payments, levies and late payment fees collected or
            recovered under sections 112, 114, 115 and 116;

       (b) any interest from a loan made out of moneys withdrawn
            from the fund;

       (c) any other income from the use of moneys withdrawn from
            the fund;

       (d) any proceeds from the exercise of the resolution measure;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            199

       (e) any moneys paid out of the DI Fund under section 29A of
            the Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners’ Protection
            Schemes Act 2011 and given to the trustee of the fund;

        (f) any additional loan obtained from the Authority.

 (6) The moneys mentioned in subsection (5)(e) must be put in a
separate account of the resolution fund from the other moneys, and
moneys from that separate account may not be used to make any
payment of compensation and associated costs under Division 11.

 (7) The trustee of a resolution fund must keep proper accounts and
records of transactions in respect of the fund.

 (8) The accounts and records of the resolution fund are to be audited
by an auditor appointed by the trustee in consultation with the
Minister.

 (9) The first audit of the resolution fund must take place as soon as
practicable after the end of the first year in which the first withdrawal
from the fund is made, and the fund must be audited every year
thereafter until it is dissolved.

Trustee of resolution fund

 109.—(1) The duty of the trustee of a resolution fund is to
administer and manage the resolution fund, and in particular —

       (a) to make withdrawals from the resolution fund in
            accordance with sections 110 and 118(1) and to apply
            the moneys withdrawn for the purposes mentioned in those
            provisions;

       (b) to collect and recover payments, levies and late payment
            fees under sections 112, 114, 115 and 116 and pay these
            into the resolution fund;

       (c) to collect proceeds in relation to the resolution measure and
            pay these into the resolution fund;

       (d) at the direction of the Minister (being one made on the
            Authority’s recommendation), to give a guarantee to any
            person for, or enter into any agreement with any person to
            share, any liability of the financial institution under

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
200  NO. 18 OF 2022

            resolution, a provisional entity, or a person to whom any
            asset or business of the financial institution under
            resolution is transferred;

       (e) to deal with the balance in the resolution fund after the fund
            is no longer needed for the purposes in section 110(1) or
            118(1), in accordance with the regulations made for the
            purposes of section 118(2); and

        (f) to do any other thing that is incidental or conducive to the
            discharge of the trustee’s duties under paragraphs (a) to (e).

 (2) The trustee of a resolution fund may be paid such fees for
carrying out its duties and exercising its powers under this Division as
the Minister may determine, and such fees are to be paid out of the
fund.

 (3) The expenses incurred by the trustee of a resolution fund in
carrying out its duties and exercising its powers under this Division
are, with the Minister’s approval, to be paid out of the fund.

 (4) The trustee of a resolution fund may, with the Minister’s
approval and subject to such conditions as the Minister may impose,
appoint any person to discharge any part of the trustee’s duties or
exercise any part of its powers.

 (5) No action, suit or other legal proceedings lie against —

       (a) any current or former trustee of a resolution fund;

       (b) any current or former director, officer, employee or agent
            of the trustee; or

       (c) any person acting under the direction of the trustee,

as a result of anything done (including any statement made) or
omitted to be done in good faith in carrying out any of the trustee’s
duties or exercising any of the trustee’s powers under this Division.

Withdrawal from resolution fund

 110.—(1) The trustee of a resolution fund must, at the Minister’s
direction, make one or more withdrawals from the resolution fund
and apply the moneys withdrawn for one or more of the following
purposes:

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            201

       (a) to pay the operating costs of a provisional entity;

       (b) to discharge a guarantee for, or an obligation under an
            agreement to share, a liability of the financial institution
            under resolution, a provisional entity or a person to whom
            any asset or business of the financial institution has been
            transferred;

       (c) to pay the costs of transferring the whole or any part of the
            business of the financial institution under resolution
            pursuant to the resolution measure;

       (d) to make or provide a loan, advance, overdraft or other
            credit facility to the financial institution under resolution or
            a provisional entity;

       (e) to pay any other costs reasonably incurred in the resolution
            measure, such as interest costs, legal cost, cost of any
            advisory services, and the cost of an independent valuation
            of the financial institution under resolution;

        (f) to make any payment of compensation and associated costs
            under Division 11;

       (g) to pay the remuneration and expenses of a valuer
            mentioned in section 124(9);

       (h) to provide capital to the financial institution under
            resolution or the provisional entity;

        (i) such other purposes in support of the resolution measure as
            may be prescribed by regulations made under section 135.

 (2) The Minister may only give a direction to the trustee under
subsection (1) on a recommendation of the Authority.

 (3) In determining whether to make a recommendation to the
Minister to direct a trustee of a resolution fund to make a withdrawal
under subsection (1), the Authority must have regard to all of the
following:

       (a) whether losses are imposed on shareholders and unsecured
            creditors of the financial institution under resolution under
            Division 5 or 6;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
202  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (b) whether funding from the private sector can be obtained for
            the resolution measure;

       (c) such other factors as may be prescribed by regulations
            made under section 135.

 (4) The Authority may only make a recommendation to the
Minister under subsection (1)(h) to make a withdrawal to provide
capital to the financial institution under resolution —

       (a) if the Authority is of the view that the provision of the
            capital is necessary for the orderly resolution of the
            financial institution under resolution; and

       (b) after the Authority has taken into account whether
            appropriate losses have been imposed on shareholders
            and unsecured creditors of the financial institution under
            resolution under Division 5 or 6.

 (5) Where a direction has been made to the trustee under
subsection (1), the Authority must, as soon as practicable, publish
a notice of that fact in the Gazette and in such newspaper or
newspapers as the Minister determines.

Recovery of sums withdrawn

 111.—(1) Where one or more withdrawals have been made from a
resolution fund under section 110, the Minister may direct the trustee
of the resolution fund to recover the sum or sums withdrawn in one or
both of the following ways:

       (a) by making a claim for all or part of that sum or those sums
            from the financial institution under resolution;

       (b) by imposing a levy, in accordance with section 113 and the
            regulations made under section 135 for section 113, on the
            following persons (called in this Part levy payers):

               (i) financial institutions that have been prescribed by
                   regulations made under section 135 as belonging to
                   the same category as the financial institution under
                   resolution;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            203

              (ii) if the financial institution under resolution is a
                   market infrastructure, those participants of the
                   market infrastructure and of other market
                   infrastructures, that have been prescribed by
                   regulations made under section 135 as levy payers;

             (iii) if the financial institution under resolution is a
                   payment system operator, those participants of the
                   payment system operated by the payment system
                   operator that have been prescribed by regulations
                   made under section 135 as levy payers.

 (2) In addition to the purpose in subsection (1), the Minister may
direct the trustee of a resolution fund to impose a levy, in accordance
with section 113 and the regulations made under section 135 for
section 113, on levy payers for the purpose of meeting any shortfall in
the amount of the levy collected to make good the amount withdrawn
from the account, or for any other prescribed purpose.

 (3) The Minister may only give a direction under subsection (1) or
(2) on a recommendation of the Authority.

 (4) The Authority must, as soon as practicable after the Minister has
given a direction under subsection (1) or (2), publish a notice of the
direction in the Gazette and in such newspaper or newspapers as the
Minister determines.

Claim from financial institution under resolution

 112.—(1) Where a direction has been given under
section 111(1)(a), the trustee of the resolution fund must make a
claim mentioned in that provision on the financial institution under
resolution to pay the sum mentioned in the direction, at such time and
in such manner as the trustee determines, and the sum claimed is
recoverable as a debt due from the financial institution under
resolution to the trustee.

 (2) Any sum recovered from the financial institution under
resolution must be paid into the resolution fund.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
204  NO. 18 OF 2022

Computation and notice of levy

 113.—(1) After the Minister has given a direction under
section 111(1)(b) or (2), the Authority must, in accordance with the
regulations made under section 135 for the purpose of this section —

       (a) compute the amount of levy payable by every levy payer;
            and

       (b) give a written notice to the trustee of the amount of levy
            payable by every levy payer.

 (2) After receipt of the notice mentioned in subsection (1)(b), the
trustee must give the notices mentioned in subsection (3), (4), (5) or
(6) (whichever is applicable) to the levy payers and in the manner set
out in that subsection.

 (3) Where the levy is to be imposed on a similar financial
institution, the trustee must give each similar financial institution a
written notice stating —

       (a) the amount of the levy;

       (b) the date by which the levy is to be paid;

       (c) the manner of payment of the levy; and

       (d) such other matters as may be prescribed by regulations
            made under section 135.

 (4) Where the levy is to be imposed on participants of a market
infrastructure on a transaction basis, the trustee must give —

       (a) a notice to the market infrastructure stating —

               (i) the description of the participants on which the levy
                   is imposed;

              (ii) the amount of the levy it is to collect from each
                   participant, or the rate of computation of that
                   amount;

             (iii) the period and manner of collection;

             (iv) the date by which the market infrastructure is to pay
                   the total amount of the levy imposed on the
                   participants to the trustee;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            205

              (v) the information and documents it is to provide to the
                   trustee when making the payment under
                   sub‑paragraph (iv); and

             (vi) such other matters as may be prescribed by
                   regulations made under section 135; and

       (b) a general notice to those participants, to be published on
            such medium as may be determined by the trustee,
            stating —

               (i) the matters in paragraph (a)(i), (ii) and (iii); and

              (ii) such other matters as may be prescribed by
                   regulations made under section 135.

 (5) Where the levy is to be imposed on participants of a market
infrastructure on a lump sum basis, the trustee must give to each
participant of the market infrastructure a written notice stating —

       (a) the amount of the levy;

       (b) the date by which the levy is to be paid;

       (c) the manner of payment of the levy; and

       (d) such other matters as may be prescribed by regulations
            made under section 135.

 (6) Where the levy is to be imposed on participants of a payment
system operated by a payment system operator, the trustee must give
to each participant a written notice stating —

       (a) the amount of the levy;

       (b) the date by which the levy is to be paid;

       (c) the manner of payment of the levy; and

       (d) such other matters as may be prescribed by regulations
            made under section 135.

 (7) The notice under subsection (3), (5) or (6) may require the levy
payer to pay an amount of levy regularly over a period of time.

 (8) The trustee may, at any time, vary a notice mentioned in
subsection (3), (4), (5) or (6), and give the notice of the variation to
every person to whom the initial notice was given, and each reference

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
206  NO. 18 OF 2022

in section 114 or 115 to a notice given to a person under this section
includes a reference to the notice of the variation given to the person
under this subsection.

Payment of levy by similar financial institutions, participants
of market infrastructure on lump sum basis, or participants of
payment system operated by payment system operator

 114.—(1) This section applies where a notice under section 113(3),
(5) or (6) is given to a levy payer that is a similar financial institution,
or a participant of a market infrastructure or of a payment system
operated by a payment system operator.

 (2) The levy payer must pay to the trustee of the resolution fund on
or before the date of payment specified in the notice, the amount of
the levy specified in the notice.

 (3) If the levy payer fails to comply with subsection (2) —

       (a) the trustee may, by written notice to the levy payer, impose
            on it such late payment fee as may be prescribed by
            regulations made under section 135; and

       (b) the levy payer must pay to the trustee the late payment fee
            together with the amount of the unpaid levy on or before
            the date specified in the notice under paragraph (a), and in
            the manner specified in the notice.

 (4) The late payment fee under subsection (3) must not exceed the
amount of the unpaid levy.

Payment of levy by participants of market infrastructure on
transaction basis

 115.—(1) This section applies where a notice under section 113(4)
is given to a market infrastructure.

 (2) The market infrastructure must —

       (a) during the period of collection specified in the notice,
            collect from each participant on whom the levy is imposed
            under the notice and in the manner specified in the notice,
            an amount equal to the levy so imposed;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            207

       (b) pay to the trustee of the resolution fund the total amount of
            the levy it is to collect from its participants by the date of
            payment specified in the notice; and

       (c) together with the payment, give a notice to the trustee
            setting out how the amount of levy is arrived at and
            providing such other details as the trustee may reasonably
            require.

 (3) A market infrastructure does not incur any civil liability for
doing anything with reasonable care and in good faith and in
compliance with subsection (2).

 (4) If a market infrastructure fails to comply with
subsection (2)(b) —

       (a) the trustee may, by written notice to the market
            infrastructure, impose on it such late payment fee as may
            be prescribed by regulations made under section 135; and

       (b) the market infrastructure must pay to the trustee the late
            payment fee, together with the amount of the unpaid levy,
            on or before the date specified in the notice under
            paragraph (a), and in the manner specified in the notice.

 (5) A market infrastructure that —

       (a) fails to comply with subsection (2)(c); or

       (b) in purported compliance with that provision, provides to
            the trustee of the resolution fund any information that the
            market infrastructure knows or has reason to believe is
            false or misleading,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (6) The late payment fee under subsection (4) must not exceed the
amount of the unpaid levy.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
208  NO. 18 OF 2022

Recovery, refund and remission of levies and late payment
fees, etc.

 116.—(1) The levy imposed on a person under section 113(3), (5)
or (6), and any late payment fee imposed on the person under
section 114(3), are both recoverable as a debt due from that person to
the trustee of the resolution fund concerned.

 (2) The amount of levy that a market infrastructure is required to
collect from its participants under section 115(2), and any late
payment fee imposed on the market infrastructure under
section 115(4), are both recoverable as a debt due from the market
infrastructure to the trustee of the resolution fund concerned.

 (3) Where the trustee of a resolution fund has commenced any legal
proceedings in a court in Singapore to recover any levy or late
payment fee from a person, the trustee is entitled to claim costs on a
full indemnity basis from that person.

 (4) All levies and late payment fees collected or recovered are to be
paid into the resolution fund concerned.

 (5) Where a levy payer has paid an amount of levy that is in excess
of the amount imposed on the levy payer under a notice under
section 114, the trustee of the resolution fund concerned must make a
withdrawal from the fund to refund the excess amount to the levy
payer.

 (6) In any particular case other than the one to which subsection (5)
applies, the trustee of a resolution fund may, with the approval of the
Minister —

       (a) make a withdrawal from the resolution fund to refund in
            whole or in part any levy paid by a levy payer; or

       (b) remit in whole or in part any levy payable by a levy payer.

Disclosure of information on levy

 117.—(1) This section applies to a notice given under
section 113(3), (5) or (6) to a levy payer that is a similar financial
institution, or a participant of a market infrastructure or of a payment
system operated by a payment system operator.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            209

 (2) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), the levy payer and any of its
officers must not disclose to any person —

       (a) the amount of the levy specified in the notice; and

       (b) any information which, if disclosed, would enable the
            amount of the levy to be identified or deduced.

 (3) Despite subsection (2), the levy payer and any of its officers
may disclose any information mentioned in subsection (4) to —

       (a) any officer of the levy payer;

       (b) where the levy payer is one that is established or
            incorporated in a foreign country or territory, its head
            office, parent corporation, parent supervisory authority,
            resolution authority, deposit insurance authority or policy
            owners’ protection scheme authority, as the case may be;

       (c) where the levy payer is a financial institution that is a
            subsidiary of a foreign corporation, that corporation or the
            corporation’s parent supervisory authority, resolution
            authority, deposit insurance authority or policy owners’
            protection scheme authority, as the case may be; or

       (d) such other person or class of persons as the Authority may
            approve in writing.

 (4) The information that may be disclosed under subsection (3) is
such information that is necessary for the performance of the duties of
the person or authority mentioned in subsection (3)(a), (b), (c) or (d),
as the case may be.

 (5) A person to whom information is disclosed under subsection (3)
must not disclose the information to any other person except as
approved by the Authority.

 (6) A person who contravenes subsection (2) or (5) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both.

 (7) This section does not apply to any information that is public
information.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
210  NO. 18 OF 2022

(8) In this section —

    “deposit insurance authority”, in relation to a levy payer or
        foreign corporation, means an authority of the foreign
        country or territory in which the levy payer or foreign
        corporation is incorporated or established that, whether alone
        or together with one or more other authorities, is responsible
        for administering a deposit insurance scheme for deposits of
        the levy payer or foreign corporation;

    “foreign corporation” means a corporation incorporated in a
        foreign country or territory;

    “officer”, in relation to a levy payer, includes —

            (a) a director, a secretary or an employee of the levy
                 payer;

            (b) a receiver or manager of any part of the undertaking
                 of the levy payer appointed under a power contained
                 in any instrument; and

            (c) the liquidator of the levy payer appointed in a
                 voluntary winding up;

    “parent corporation”, in relation to a levy payer, means a
        corporation that is able to exercise a significant influence
        over the direction and management of the levy payer or that
        has a controlling interest in the levy payer;

    “parent supervisory authority”, in relation to a levy payer or a
        foreign corporation, means the supervisory authority that is
        responsible, under the laws of the country or territory in
        which the levy payer or foreign corporation is incorporated or
        established, for supervising the levy payer or foreign
        corporation, as the case may be;

    “policy owners’ protection scheme authority”, in relation to a
        levy payer or a foreign corporation, means an authority of the
        foreign country or territory in which the levy payer or foreign
        corporation is incorporated or established that, whether alone
        or together with one or more authorities, is responsible for
        administering a protection scheme for the policy owners of

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            211

         insurance policies of the levy payer or foreign corporation, as
         the case may be;

      “resolution authority”, in relation to a levy payer or a foreign
         corporation, means an authority of the foreign country or
         territory in which the levy payer or foreign corporation is
         incorporated or established that, whether alone or together
         with one or more other authorities, is responsible for the
         resolution, or for preparing plans for dealing with the
         resolution of, the levy payer or foreign corporation, as the
         case may be.

Use of resolution fund to pay loan, etc., and balance in
resolution fund

 118.—(1) The Minister may, from time to time, direct the trustee of
a resolution fund to make a withdrawal from the resolution fund for
any of the following purposes:

       (a) to repay the Authority all or any part of the loan made
            under section 23(7A) of the Monetary Authority of
            Singapore Act 1970, together with any interest on such
            loan;

       (b) to reimburse the Agency for any payment the trustee
            received under section 29A of the Deposit Insurance and
            Policy Owners’ Protection Schemes Act 2011.

 (2) The Minister may by regulations made under section 135
provide for —

       (a) how the balance in a resolution fund is to be dealt with after
            the fund is no longer needed for any of the purposes
            mentioned in subsection (1) or section 110(1); and

       (b) the dissolution of the resolution fund after the balance of
            the fund has been dealt with in accordance with the
            regulations, and the publication of a notice of such
            dissolution.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
212  NO. 18 OF 2022

Priority of debt of financial institution to trustee

 119. Despite any written law or rule of law relating to the winding
up of companies, in the event of a winding up of a financial institution
(other than one that is a bank, a finance company licensed under the
Finance Companies Act 1967 or an insurer licensed under the
Insurance Act 1966) —

       (a) any sum claimed by the trustee of a resolution fund from
            the financial institution under section 112; and

       (b) any levy and late payment imposed on the financial
            institution under section 113, 114 or 115 and due from the
            financial institution, and any levy which the financial
            institution is liable to collect under section 115(2) and due
            from the financial institution,

have priority over all unsecured liabilities of the financial institution
other than preferential debts specified in section 203(1) of the
Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018.

Regulations for this Division

 120.—(1) Regulations may be made under section 135 for the
purposes of this Division.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), regulations may be made in
relation to the imposition and recovery of a levy and late payment fee
under section 113, 114, 115 or 116, and in particular in relation to one
or more of the following:

       (a) the levy payers on and from whom the trustee of the
            resolution fund may impose and recover the levy;

       (b) the classification of the levy payers mentioned in
            paragraph (a) for the purpose of imposing different
            amounts of the levy;

       (c) the manner in which the amount of the levy for each class
            of levy payers is to be determined;

       (d) the amount of the late payment fee;

       (e) the manner and date of payment of the levy and late
            payment fee;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            213

(f) a duty of a financial institution under resolution, a levy
     payer, a market infrastructure or a payment system
     operator to provide such information as the Authority or
     trustee may reasonably require for the purposes of
     computing the levy or late payment fee or preparing a
     notice under section 113;

(g) such other matters as the Minister considers necessary for
     the computation, imposition and recovery of the levy or
     late payment fees.

                       Division 11 — Compensation

Interpretation of this Division

 121. In this Division, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “2nd transferee” has the meaning given by section 69;

      “Division 11 FI” or Division 11 financial institution means a
         pertinent financial institution within a class of pertinent
         financial institutions prescribed by regulations made under
         section 135 for the purposes of this Division;

      “Division 11 FI under resolution” means a Division 11 FI that is
         the subject of a resolution action;

      “pre-resolution creditor”, in relation to a Division 11 FI under
         resolution, means any person who was a creditor of the
         Division 11 FI immediately before the resolution date;

      “pre-resolution shareholder”, in relation to a Division 11 FI
         under resolution, means any person who held shares or
         instruments conferring or representing a legal or beneficial
         ownership interest in the Division 11 FI, immediately before
         the resolution date;

      “prescribed written law” has the meaning given by section 95;

      “resolution action” means —

              (a) the issue of a certificate of transfer under section 67
                   or any action to be taken under that certificate;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
214  NO. 18 OF 2022

             (b) the issue of a certificate of transfer under section 76
                  or any action to be taken under that certificate;

             (c) the issue of a certificate of restructuring of share
                  capital under section 79 or any action to be taken
                  under that certificate;

             (d) the issue of a bail-in certificate under section 84 or
                  any action to be taken under that certificate; or

             (e) the making of an order under section 104 that
                  provides for any of the matters mentioned in
                  section 104(2);

     “resolution date”, in relation to a Division 11 FI under
        resolution, means —

             (a) if the Division 11 FI is the subject of the issue of a
                  certificate of transfer under section 67, a certificate of
                  transfer under section 76, a certificate of
                  restructuring of share capital under section 79, or a
                  bail‑in certificate under section 84 — the date the
                  certificate is published in the Gazette;

             (b) if the Division 11 FI is the subject of 2 or more
                  actions mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (d) of the
                  definition of “resolution action” — the earlier or
                  earliest of the dates of publication of the relevant
                  certificates in the Gazette;

             (c) if the Division 11 FI is the subject of an action
                  mentioned in paragraph (e) of the definition of
                  “resolution action” — the date of publication of the
                  order in the Gazette; or

             (d) if the Division 11 FI is the subject of one or more
                  actions mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (d) of the
                  definition of “resolution action”, as well as the action
                  mentioned in paragraph (e) of that definition — the
                  earlier of the following dates:

                    (i) the date of publication in the Gazette of the
                         relevant certificate or, if there is more than

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            215

                          one relevant certificate, the earlier or earliest of
                          the dates of publication in the Gazette of the
                          relevant certificates;

                     (ii) the date of publication of the order in the
                          Gazette;

      “transferee” has the meaning given by section 65;

      “valuation report” means a report issued by a valuer under
         section 125(3);

      “valuer” means a person appointed under section 124 as a
         valuer.

Meaning of “worse off as a result of the resolution”

 122.—(1) In this Division, a pre‑resolution creditor or
pre‑resolution shareholder of a Division 11 FI under resolution is
worse off as a result of the resolution if, by reason of one or more of
the actions mentioned in subsection (2) taken in relation to the
Division 11 FI, the pre‑resolution creditor or pre‑resolution
shareholder has received, is receiving or is likely to receive less
favourable treatment than what the pre‑resolution creditor or
pre‑resolution shareholder would have received had winding up
proceedings been commenced against the Division 11 FI immediately
before the resolution date.

 (2) In subsection (1), the actions are —

       (a) any resolution action;

       (b) the issue of a reverse transfer certificate under section 71 or
            any action taken under that certificate; and

       (c) the issue of an onward transfer certificate under section 73
            or any action taken under that certificate.

 (3) In any of the following cases, it is a rebuttable presumption that
a pre‑resolution creditor or pre‑resolution shareholder of a
Division 11 FI under resolution is not worse off as a result of the
resolution:

       (a) the liability or instrument concerned is transferred to a
            transferee under section 67 and the transferee is subject to

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
216  NO. 18 OF 2022

            the same terms for that liability or instrument as those to
            which the Division 11 FI under resolution was subject;

       (b) the liability or instrument concerned is transferred under
            section 67 and is then transferred back to the Division 11 FI
            under section 71, and the Division 11 FI is subject to the
            same terms for that liability or instrument as it was subject
            to immediately before the transfer under section 67;

       (c) the liability or instrument concerned is transferred under
            section 67 and is then transferred to a 2nd transferee under
            section 73, and the 2nd transferee is subject to the same
            terms for that liability or instrument as those to which the
            Division 11 FI under resolution was subject;

       (d) the only resolution action to which the Division 11 FI is
            subject is the issue of a bail‑in certificate within the
            meaning of Division 6 or any action under the certificate,
            and the instrument or liability concerned is not one to be
            bailed in under that certificate;

       (e) the only resolution action to which the Division 11 FI is
            subject is the making of an order under Division 9, and the
            pre‑resolution creditor or pre‑resolution shareholder is
            eligible for compensation under the law of a foreign
            country or territory by reason of the resolution to which the
            order gives effect.

Eligibility for compensation

 123.—(1) A pre-resolution creditor or pre‑resolution shareholder of
a Division 11 FI under resolution that is worse off as a result of the
resolution, is eligible for compensation of the amount mentioned in
subsection (2).

 (2) The amount of compensation that the pre-resolution creditor or
pre‑resolution shareholder is eligible for is the difference between —

       (a) what the pre-resolution creditor or pre‑resolution
            shareholder would have received had winding up
            proceedings been commenced against the Division 11 FI

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            217

            under resolution immediately before the resolution date;
            and

       (b) what the pre-resolution creditor or pre‑resolution
            shareholder has received, is receiving, or is likely to
            receive —

               (i) as a result of one or more of the actions mentioned in
                   section 122(2); and

              (ii) as compensation under the law of a foreign country
                   or territory governing the foreign resolution
                   (if applicable).

 (3) Subject to section 129, the Authority must recommend to the
Minister to make a direction to the trustee of the resolution fund
established under Division 10 in relation to the resolution of the
Division 11 FI, to make a withdrawal from the fund to pay to the
pre‑resolution creditor or pre‑resolution shareholder, the amount set
out in the valuation report as the amount mentioned in subsection (2).

 (4) Payment of the compensation to the pre‑resolution creditor or
pre‑resolution shareholder is to be made in the form and manner, and
within the time, prescribed by regulations made under section 135.

Appointment of valuer

 124.—(1) The Minister must, as soon as practicable, after the
resolution date of a Division 11 FI under resolution, appoint a valuer
for the Division 11 FI.

 (2) The role of a valuer appointed under this section is to make a
valuation in relation to the Division 11 FI in accordance with
section 125, and decide whether any pre‑resolution creditor or
pre‑resolution shareholder of the Division 11 FI is eligible for
compensation and the amount of the compensation.

 (3) The Minister may only appoint a person as a valuer if the
Minister is satisfied that the person satisfies the criteria prescribed by
regulations made for the purposes of this subsection under
section 135.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
218  NO. 18 OF 2022

 (4) The appointment of a valuer is to be made on such conditions as
the Minister may determine, and the Minister may at any time add to,
vary or revoke any such condition.

 (5) The Minister may on any prescribed ground revoke the
appointment of a valuer, and may, subject to subsections (3) and
(4), appoint a new valuer.

 (6) Where the appointment of a valuer is revoked and a new valuer
is appointed under subsection (5), the Authority may direct the
previous valuer to provide such information and documents to the
new valuer as the Authority considers necessary for the new valuer to
conduct the valuation.

 (7) A valuer that does not comply with a direction issued under
subsection (6) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every
day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (8) The Authority may at any time fix the remuneration and
expenses to be paid to a valuer.

 (9) The remuneration and expenses of a valuer may be paid out of
the resolution fund established under Division 10 in relation to the
resolution of the Division 11 FI.

Valuation

 125.—(1) A valuer for a Division 11 FI under resolution must
conduct the valuation of the Division 11 FI in accordance with the
valuation principles that are prescribed by regulations made under
section 135, and any other valuation principles specified by the
Authority by written notice to the valuer.

 (2) The valuer must determine the amount of compensation to be
paid to each pre‑resolution creditor or pre‑resolution shareholder of
the Division 11 FI, or each one that is within a class of pre‑resolution
creditors or pre‑resolution shareholders of the Division 11 FI, by
reference to the difference between —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            219

       (a) the valuer’s assessment of what the pre‑resolution creditor
            or pre‑resolution shareholder would have received had
            winding up proceedings been commenced against the
            Division 11 FI immediately before the resolution date; and

       (b) the valuer’s assessment of what the pre‑resolution creditor
            or pre‑resolution shareholder has received, is receiving, or
            is likely to receive —

               (i) as a result of one or more of the actions mentioned in
                   section 122(2); and

              (ii) as compensation under the law of a foreign country
                   or territory governing the foreign resolution
                   (if applicable).

 (3) After conducting the valuation, the valuer for a Division 11 FI
under resolution must issue a report setting out the valuer’s decision
on —

       (a) whether each pre-resolution creditor or pre‑resolution
            shareholder of the Division 11 FI is eligible for
            compensation; and

       (b) the amount of compensation to be paid to each
            pre‑resolution creditor or pre‑resolution shareholder.

 (4) The valuation report must specify the information that is
prescribed by regulations made under section 135 and any other
valuation principles specified by the Authority by written notice to
the valuer.

 (5) The valuer must provide the valuation report to the Minister and
the Authority by such date as may be determined by the Minister.

 (6) On receiving a copy of the valuation report, where the Authority
is of the view that —

       (a) the valuation report was not prepared in accordance with
            this section; or

       (b) the valuer should have had regard to any additional
            circumstances not taken into account in the valuation
            report,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
220  NO. 18 OF 2022

the Authority may, by written notice, request the valuer to reconsider
the valuation report or any aspect of the report by such date as the
Authority may specify in the notice.

 (7) The Authority may cause the valuation report or any part of the
valuation report to be published in the manner determined by the
Authority.

Access to information by valuer

 126.—(1) A Division 11 FI under resolution for which a valuer is
appointed must —

       (a) give the valuer access to such of its records and documents
            as the valuer may reasonably require to conduct the
            valuation;

       (b) procure a person who is in possession of such records and
            documents to give the valuer access to them;

       (c) provide such information and facilities as the valuer may
            reasonably require to conduct the valuation; and

       (d) procure a person who is in possession of such information
            or facilities to provide the information or facilities to the
            valuer.

 (2) Subsection (1) has effect despite any obligation of
confidentiality or other restrictions on the disclosure of information
imposed on the Division 11 FI under resolution or any of its officers,
or on any person mentioned in subsection (1)(b) or (d), by any
prescribed written law or any requirement imposed under any such
written law, any rule of law, any contract or any rule of professional
conduct.

 (3) A Division 11 FI under resolution that, without reasonable
excuse, refuses or neglects to comply with subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (4) No civil or criminal liability is incurred by a Division 11 FI
under resolution or any of its officers, or by any person mentioned in

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            221

subsection (1)(b) or (d) or any of the person’s officers, in respect of
any obligation or restriction mentioned in subsection (2), for doing or
omitting to do any act, if the act is done or omitted to be done with
reasonable care and in good faith and for the purpose of complying
with or giving effect to subsection (1).

 (5) A Division 11 FI under resolution or any of its officers, or any
person mentioned in subsection (1)(b) or (d), that, with reasonable
care and in good faith, does or omits to do any act for the purpose of
complying with or giving effect to subsection (1) is not to be treated
as being in breach of any obligation or restriction mentioned in
subsection (2).

Confidentiality and use of information

 127.—(1) A valuer must not use or disclose any information
obtained under this Division other than for the performance of its
functions under this Division.

 (2) Any person who comes to know of any information in the
course of assisting another person to perform a function under this
Division must not use or disclose the information for any purpose
other than for such assistance.

 (3) Except as provided under sections 125(5) and 128, a valuer
must not disclose any part of the valuation report issued by the valuer
to any person.

 (4) The duties of a valuer under subsections (1) and (3) continue
after the revocation or cessation of the valuer’s appointment.

 (5) A person who contravenes subsection (1), (2) or (3) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 years or to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000.

 (6) A person to whom any information is disclosed, who knows or
has reasonable grounds for believing at the time of the disclosure, that
the information was disclosed to the person in contravention of

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
222  NO. 18 OF 2022

subsection (1), (2) or (3), shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 years or to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000.

 (7) Where a person is charged with an offence under subsection (6),
it is a defence for the person to prove that —

       (a) the disclosure was made contrary to the person’s desire;

       (b) where the disclosure was made in any written or printed
            form, the person had as soon as practicable after receiving
            the information, surrendered, or taken all reasonable steps
            to surrender, the information and all copies of the
            information to the Authority; and

       (c) where the disclosure was made in an electronic form, the
            person had, as soon as practicable after receiving the
            information, taken all reasonable steps to ensure the
            deletion of all electronic copies of the information and
            the surrender of the information and all copies of the
            information in other forms to the Authority.

Disclosure of valuation report

 128.—(1) A valuer of a Division 11 FI under resolution may, with
the Authority’s approval, disclose the whole or any part of the
valuation report of the Division 11 FI to the Division 11 FI, any
pre‑resolution creditor or pre‑resolution shareholder of the
Division 11 FI, or the public.

 (2) In granting approval for a disclosure, the Authority may impose
such conditions or restrictions as the Authority thinks fit on the valuer
as to the form or content of the valuation report or part of the
valuation report to be disclosed.

 (3) The Authority may also impose such conditions or restrictions
as the Authority thinks fit on the Division 11 FI under resolution or
any pre‑resolution creditor or pre‑resolution shareholder of the
Division 11 FI that the valuer discloses the valuation report to.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            223

 (4) A person who contravenes any of the provisions of this section,
or any condition or restriction imposed under subsection (2) or (3),
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 years or to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000.

Appeals

 129.—(1) The Authority may appeal to the Court against a
valuation report if the Authority is dissatisfied with —

       (a) the valuer’s decision on any person’s eligibility for
            compensation; or

       (b) the amount of compensation to be paid to any person
            pursuant to the valuation report.

 (2) A person may appeal to the Court against a valuation report if
the person is dissatisfied with —

       (a) the valuer’s decision on the person’s eligibility for
            compensation; or

       (b) the amount of compensation to be paid to the person
            pursuant to the valuation report.

 (3) The Court may make an order that confirms or varies the
valuation report in respect of the eligibility of a person for
compensation or the amount of compensation to be paid to the person.

 (4) A person may not lodge an appeal after the resolution fund
established under Division 10 in relation to the resolution of the
Division 11 FI has been dissolved in accordance with regulations
made for the purposes of section 118(2).

 (5) Rules of Court may provide for the manner in which appeals
under this section may be made and the procedure for the appeal.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
224  NO. 18 OF 2022

                       Division 12 — Miscellaneous

Notices to significant associated entities of specified financial
institutions

 130.—(1) The Authority may, if the Authority thinks it necessary or
expedient in the public interest, in the interests of any affected person
or class of affected persons of a specified financial institution or in the
interests of the financial system in Singapore, by written notice to a
significant associated entity of the specified financial institution, give
directions or impose requirements on or relating to the operations or
activities of the significant associated entity, including directions that
the significant associated entity —

       (a) take such action, or do or not do such act or thing, as the
            Authority may specify in the notice; or

       (b) continue to provide such services as the Authority may
            specify in the notice to —

               (i) the specified financial institution; or

              (ii) all or any of the entities treated, for accounting
                   purposes according to the Accounting Standards, as
                   part of the group of companies of the specified
                   financial institution.

 (2) A significant associated entity of a specified financial institution
must comply with any direction given to the significant associated
entity, or any requirement imposed on the significant associated
entity, by any notice issued to the significant associated entity under
subsection (1).

 (3) It is not necessary to publish any notice issued under
subsection (1) in the Gazette.

 (4) A significant associated entity (of a specified financial
institution) that contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            225

(5) In this section —

    “Accounting Standards” has the meaning given by section 4(1)
        of the Companies Act 1967;

    “group of companies”, in relation to a specified financial
        institution, means —

            (a) the specified financial institution;

            (b) the entities that are subsidiaries of the specified
                 financial institution; and

            (c) the entity that is the holding company of the specified
                 financial institution, and the entities that are
                 subsidiaries of that holding company;

    “significant associated entity”, in relation to a specified financial
        institution, means an entity incorporated, formed or
        established in Singapore —

            (a) which is treated, for accounting purposes according
                 to the Accounting Standards, as part of the group of
                 companies of the specified financial institution;

            (b) which is not approved, authorised, designated,
                 recognised, registered, licensed or otherwise
                 regulated by the Authority under this Act or any
                 other MAS scheduled Act; and

            (c) which —

                    (i) is significant to the business of —

                          (A) the specified financial institution; or

                          (B) all or any of the entities which are treated,
                               for accounting purposes according to the
                               Accounting Standards, as part of the
                               group of companies of the specified
                               financial institution; or

                   (ii) provides any service which is essential or
                        necessary for the continued operation of —

                          (A) the specified financial institution; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
226  NO. 18 OF 2022

                           (B) all or any of the entities which are treated,
                                 for accounting purposes according to the
                                 Accounting Standards, as part of the
                                 group of companies of the specified
                                 financial institution.

Modification of law of insolvency

 131. Despite anything to the contrary in this Act, the Companies
Act 1967 and the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
Act 2018 —

       (a) any sale, transfer, assignment or other disposition of any
            property or business of a pertinent financial institution
            pursuant to section 67 or 73 must not be reversed, repaid or
            set aside, except where a certificate has been issued under
            section 71 to reverse such sale, transfer, assignment or
            other disposition; and

       (b) no order may be made by any court for the rectification or
            stay of any such sale, transfer, assignment or other
            disposition.

Power to obtain information under this Part

 132.—(1) The Minister or the Authority may require a person to
provide, within the period and in the manner specified by the Minister
or the Authority, any information or document that the Minister or the
Authority may reasonably require —

       (a) for the discharge or exercise of the Minister’s or the
            Authority’s duties, functions or powers under this Part; or

       (b) for transmission to a valuer appointed under section 124 in
            connection with the valuer’s role under Division 11.

 (2) A person who —

       (a) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with any
            requirement under subsection (1); or

       (b) in purported compliance with any requirement under
            subsection (1), knowingly or recklessly provides any

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            227

            information or document that is false or misleading in a
            material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

 (3) Where a person claims, before providing the Minister or the
Authority with any information or document that the person is
required to provide under subsection (1), that the information or
document might tend to incriminate the person, the information or
document is not admissible in evidence against the person in criminal
proceedings other than proceedings under subsection (2).

Immunity for officer of specified financial institution or
significant associated entity

 133.—(1) No civil or criminal liability is incurred by an officer of a
specified financial institution, or of a significant associated entity
referred to in section 130, for anything done (including any statement
made) or omitted to be done with reasonable care and in good faith in
complying with any provision of this Part or any direction given,
notice issued or requirement imposed by the Minister or the Authority
under this Part.

 (2) In this section, “officer”, in relation to a specified financial
institution or a significant associated entity referred to in section 130,
includes —

       (a) a director, a secretary or an executive officer of the
            specified financial institution or significant associated
            entity, as the case may be;

       (b) a receiver or manager of any part of the undertaking of the
            specified financial institution or significant associated
            entity (as the case may be) appointed under a power
            contained in any instrument; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
228  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (c) a liquidator of the specified financial institution or
            significant associated entity (as the case may be)
            appointed in a voluntary winding up.

Cessation of moratorium, etc., under this Part

 134.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, direct that
section 68(1) or (2), 76(13), 79(13) or 86, or any part of that
provision, ceases to apply to a pertinent financial institution, any
business (or any part of the business) of a pertinent financial
institution, any share in a pertinent financial institution or any eligible
instrument issued by a Division 6 FI or to which it is a party or is
subject, and the order has effect according to its terms on the date
specified by the Minister in the order.

 (2) In this section, “business” includes affairs, property, right,
obligation and liability.

Regulations for this Part

 135.—(1) The Minister may make such regulations as may be
necessary or expedient for carrying out the purposes and provisions
of this Part and for prescribing anything that may be required to be
prescribed under this Part.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), regulations made under this
section may —

       (a) restrict, or impose conditions on, any transfer of only part
            (but not the whole) of the business (as defined in
            section 65) of a pertinent financial institution under
            Division 2;

       (b) provide for either or both of the following:

               (i) that any arrangement, transaction or action is exempt
                   from any provision of this Part;

              (ii) that the Minister or the Authority must not exercise
                   any power under this Part in relation to any
                   arrangement, transaction or action, or any matter
                   for which any arrangement has been entered into,

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            229

            either in all circumstances or if specified conditions
            are not satisfied;

(c) prescribe —

       (i) any set-off arrangement, netting arrangement or
            other type of arrangement as an arrangement
            referred to in paragraph (b)(i) or (ii);

      (ii) any transaction or action as a transaction or action in
            paragraph (b)(i) or (ii);

      (iii) for any arrangement, transaction or action referred to
            in paragraph (b)(i), each provision of this Part which
            that arrangement, transaction or action is exempted
            from; and

      (iv) for any arrangement, transaction, action or matter
            referred to in paragraph (b)(ii), each power which the
            Minister or the Authority may not exercise in relation
            to that arrangement, transaction, action or matter;

(d) provide for any transaction to be void or voidable, or for
     any other consequence (including a consequence affecting
     any business, affairs, property, right, obligation, liability or
     power of any person under this Part, or affecting the
     operation of any provision of this Part) to arise, if any
     specified provision of the regulations is contravened;

(e) provide that any contravention of any specified provision
     of the regulations shall be an offence punishable —

       (i) in the case of an individual, with a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 or with imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 3 years or with both and, in the case of
            a continuing offence, with a further fine not
            exceeding $12,500 for every day or part of a day
            during which the offence continues after conviction;
            or

      (ii) in any other case, with a fine not exceeding $250,000
            and, in the case of a continuing offence, with a
            further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every day or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
230  NO. 18 OF 2022

                   part of a day during which the offence continues after
                   conviction;

        (f) exempt any person or class of persons from all or any of the
            provisions of this Part and the regulations, subject to such
            conditions or restrictions as may be prescribed; and

       (g) provide that a pertinent financial institution, any of its
            subsidiaries or any subsidiary within a class of its
            subsidiaries, must include a provision in a specified
            contract to which the pertinent financial institution or
            subsidiary is a party, the effect of which is that the parties
            to the contract agree to be bound by section 92 and by any
            suspension of a termination right in the contract by the
            Authority under section 93.

 (3) For the purposes of the definition of “affected person” in
section 58, the Minister may prescribe, in relation to any specified
financial institution, different persons for different purposes.

 (4) For the purposes of the definitions of “excluded financial
institution” and “pertinent financial institution” in section 58, the
Minister may prescribe different financial institutions for different
purposes.

 (5) All regulations made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

 (6) In this section —

      “netting arrangement” means an arrangement under which 2 or
         more claims or obligations can be converted into a net claim
         or obligation, and includes a close‑out netting arrangement
         (under which actual or theoretical debts are calculated during
         the course of a contract for the purpose of enabling them to be
         set‑off against each other or to be converted into a net debt);

      “set-off arrangement” means an arrangement under which 2 or
         more debts, claims or obligations can be set‑off against each
         other.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            231

                                    PART 9

              DIGITAL TOKEN SERVICE PROVIDERS

                         Division 1 — Preliminary

Interpretation of this Part

 136.—(1) In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “5% controller”, in relation to a corporation (being a licensee),
         means a person that alone or together with the person’s
         associates —

              (a) has an interest in at least 5%, but less than 12%, of the
                   shares in the corporation; or

              (b) is in a position to control at least 5%, but less than
                   12%, of the votes in the corporation;

      “12% controller”, in relation to a corporation (being a licensee),
         means a person that alone or together with the person’s
         associates —

              (a) has an interest in at least 12%, but less than 20%, of
                   the shares in the corporation; or

              (b) is in a position to control at least 12%, but less than
                   20%, of the votes in the corporation;

      “20% controller”, in relation to a corporation (being a licensee),
         means a person that alone or together with the person’s
         associates —

              (a) has an interest in at least 20% of the shares in the
                   corporation; or

              (b) is in a position to control at least 20% of the votes in
                   the corporation;

      “arrangement” includes any formal or informal scheme,
         arrangement or understanding, and any trust whether
         express or implied;

      “book” includes any record, register, document or other record
         of information and any account or accounting record,
         however compiled, recorded or stored, whether in written

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
232  NO. 18 OF 2022

        or printed form or on microfilm or by electronic process or
        otherwise;

     “capital markets products” has the meaning given by
        section 2(1) of the Securities and Futures Act 2001;

     “chief executive officer”, in relation to a corporation, means a
        person, by whatever name called, who —

             (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
                  arrangement with, the corporation; and

             (b) is principally responsible for the management and
                  conduct of the business of the corporation;

     “company” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
        Companies Act 1967;

     “digital payment token” has the meaning given by section 2(1)
        of the Payment Services Act 2019;

     “digital payment token service” has the meaning given by
        section 2(1) of the Payment Services Act 2019;

     “digital token” means —

             (a) a digital payment token; or

             (b) a digital representation of a capital markets product
                  which —

                    (i) can be transferred, stored or traded
                         electronically; and

                    (ii) satisfies such other characteristics as the
                         Authority may prescribe,

        but does not include an excluded digital token;

     “digital token service” has the meaning given by Part 1 of the
        First Schedule, but excludes any service that is specified in
        Part 2 of that Schedule;

     “digital token service provider” means any person that provides
        a digital token service;

     “digital token service user” means any person that uses a digital
        token service;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            233

“director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“e-money” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
   Payment Services Act 2019;

“employee”, in relation to an employer, includes an individual
   seconded or temporarily transferred to the employer from
   another employer;

“entity” means any body corporate or unincorporate, whether
   incorporated, formed or established in or outside Singapore;

“excluded digital token” means a digital token that is prescribed
   by the Authority as an excluded digital token;

“executive director” means a director who is concurrently an
   executive officer;

“executive officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any
   individual, by whatever name called, who —

        (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
             arrangement with, the corporation; and

        (b) is concerned with or takes part in the management of
             the corporation on a day‑to‑day basis;

“financial regulatory authority”, in relation to a foreign country
   or territory, means an authority of the foreign country or
   territory exercising any function that corresponds to a
   regulatory function of the Authority under this Act or any
   other MAS scheduled Act;

“indirect controller”, in relation to a corporation (being a
   licensee) —

        (a) means any person, whether acting alone or together
             with any other person, and whether with or without
             holding shares or controlling voting power in the
             corporation —

               (i) in accordance with whose directions,
                    instructions or wishes the directors of the
                    corporation are accustomed or under an

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
234  NO. 18 OF 2022

                         obligation, whether formal or informal, to act;
                         or

                    (ii) that is in a position to determine the policy of
                         the corporation; but

             (b) excludes any person —

                    (i) who is a director or other officer of the
                         corporation and whose appointment has been
                         approved by the Authority; or

                    (ii) in accordance with whose directions,
                         instructions or wishes the directors of the
                         corporation are accustomed to act by reason
                         only that they act on advice given by the person
                         in the person’s professional capacity;

     “licence” means a licence granted under section 138;

     “licensee” means a digital token service provider the licence of
        which is in force;

     “limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by
        section 4(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

     “money” includes e-money but excludes any digital payment
        token and any excluded digital token;

     “partner”, in relation to a limited liability partnership, has the
        meaning given by section 2(1) of the Limited Liability
        Partnerships Act 2005;

     “permanent place of business”, in relation to a person, means
        each fixed location in Singapore used by the person, for
        carrying on the person’s business, regardless whether the
        business is carried on within a single building or at a single
        business address;

     “place of business”, in relation to a licensee, means any location
        (including a kiosk that can be moved from one location to
        another) in Singapore used by the licensee, for carrying on its
        business;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            235

    “registered office” means a registered office maintained under
        section 142(1) or 370(1) of the Companies Act 1967;

    “regulated financial institution” means a person that carries on a
        business, the conduct of which is regulated or authorised by
        the Authority or, if it is carried on in Singapore, could be
        regulated or authorised by the Authority;

    “share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the Companies
        Act 1967 and includes an interest in a share;

    “VCC” or variable capital company has the meaning given by
        section 2(1) of the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018.

(2) In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      (a) a person has an interest in a share if —

             (i) the person has or is treated as having an interest in
                  that share under section 7(1A), (1B), (2), (6) and (7)
                  to (10) of the Companies Act 1967; or

            (ii) the person has any legal or equitable interest in that
                  share, except an interest that is to be disregarded
                  under section 7(9) of the Companies Act 1967;

      (b) a reference to the control of a percentage of the votes in a
           corporation (being a licensee) is a reference to the control,
           whether direct or indirect, of that percentage of the total
           number of votes that might be cast in a general meeting of
           the corporation; and

      (c) a person (A) is an associate of another person (B) if —

             (i) A is the spouse, a parent, remoter lineal ancestor or
                  step‑parent, a son, daughter, remoter issue, stepson
                  or stepdaughter, or a brother or sister, of B;

            (ii) A is a body corporate that is, or a majority of the
                  directors of which are, accustomed or under an
                  obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
                  accordance with the directions, instructions or
                  wishes of B;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
236  NO. 18 OF 2022

             (iii) A is a person that is accustomed or under an
                   obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
                   accordance with the directions, instructions or
                   wishes of B;

             (iv) A is a subsidiary of B;

              (v) A is a body corporate in which B, whether alone or
                   together with other associates of B as described in
                   sub‑paragraphs (ii), (iii) and (iv), is in a position to
                   control 20% or more of the votes in A; or

             (vi) A is a person with whom B has an agreement or
                   arrangement (whether oral or in writing and whether
                   express or implied) to act together with respect to the
                   acquisition, holding or disposal of shares or other
                   interests in, or with respect to the exercise of their
                   votes in relation to, the corporation (being a licensee)
                   mentioned in the definition of “5% controller”,
                   “12% controller” or “20% controller”.

 (3) For the purposes of section 137(2) and (4), the provision of a
digital token service is incidental to any other business carried on by a
person, if the digital token service —

       (a) is carried on, offered or provided by that person to support
            that other business; and

       (b) is provided by that person in connection with the carrying
            on of that other business.

      Division 2 — Licensing of digital token service providers

   Subdivision (1) — Licensing of digital token service providers

Licensing of digital token service providers

 137.—(1) Except as provided for in subsection (5), an individual or
a partnership must not from a place of business in Singapore carry on
a business of providing any type of digital token service outside
Singapore unless the individual or the partnership has in force a
licence.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            237

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), where a person provides any
type of digital token service while the person carries on any business
(called in this subsection the primary business) from a place of
business in Singapore —

       (a) the person is presumed to carry on a secondary business of
            providing that type of digital token service from a place of
            business in Singapore, regardless whether the provision of
            that type of digital token service is related or incidental to
            the primary business; and

       (b) the presumption in paragraph (a) is not rebutted by proof
            that the provision of that type of digital token service is
            related or incidental, or is both related and incidental, to the
            primary business.

 (3) Except as provided for in subsection (5), a Singapore
corporation must not carry on a business, whether from Singapore
or elsewhere, of providing any type of digital token service outside
Singapore unless the Singapore corporation has in force a licence.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (3), where a person provides any
type of digital token service while the person carries on any business
(called in this subsection the primary business) —

       (a) the person is presumed to carry on a secondary business of
            providing that type of digital token service regardless
            whether the provision of that type of digital token service is
            related or incidental to the primary business; and

       (b) the presumption in paragraph (a) is not rebutted by proof
            that the provision of that type of digital token service is
            related or incidental, or is both related and incidental, to the
            primary business.

 (5) Subsections (1) and (3) do not apply to a person who carries on a
business of providing a digital token service —

       (a) unless otherwise provided for in regulations made under
            section 192 —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
238  NO. 18 OF 2022

               (i) that is —

                    (A) required to be licensed, approved or recognised
                          under the Securities and Futures Act 2001; or

                     (B) exempted from licensing, approval or
                          recognition under the Securities and Futures
                          Act 2001,

               (i) in respect of the carrying on of a business in a capital
                   markets product regulated activity;

              (ii) that is —

                    (A) required to be licensed under the Financial
                          Advisers Act 2001; or

                     (B) exempted from licensing under the Financial
                          Advisers Act 2001,

              (ii) in respect of the carrying on of a business of
                   providing a financial advisory service; or

             (iii) that is —

                    (A) required to be licensed under the Payment
                          Services Act 2019; or

                     (B) exempted from licensing under the Payment
                          Services Act 2019,

             (iii) in respect of the carrying on of a business of
                   providing any digital payment token service;

       (b) that is specified in the Second Schedule; or

       (c) that belongs to a prescribed class of persons.

 (6) A person that contravenes subsection (1) or (3) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
            to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
            part of a day during which the offence continues after
            conviction; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            239

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

 (7) In this section —

      “capital markets product regulated activity” means any of the
         following activities:

              (a) any regulated activity;

              (b) establishing or operating an organised market;

      “financial advisory service” has the meaning given by
         section 2(1) of the Financial Advisers Act 2001;

      “organised market” has the meaning given by Part 1 of the First
         Schedule to the Securities and Futures Act 2001;

      “regulated activity” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
         Securities and Futures Act 2001;

      “Singapore corporation” means a body corporate formed or
         incorporated in Singapore and includes a limited liability
         partnership.

Application for licence

 138.—(1) An application for a licence must be made to the
Authority in the form and manner required by the Authority.

 (2) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1), the
Authority may —

       (a) grant a licence to the applicant, with or without conditions;
            or

       (b) refuse to grant a licence.

 (3) Where an applicant has applied for a licence, the Authority must
not grant the licence to the applicant unless —

       (a) the applicant has a permanent place of business in
            Singapore;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
240  NO. 18 OF 2022

     (b) in the case of an applicant that is a corporation, an
          executive director of the applicant —

            (i) is resident in Singapore; or

           (ii) if the applicant satisfies such conditions as may be
                 prescribed — belongs to a prescribed class of
                 persons;

     (c) in the case of an applicant that is a partnership, a partner of
          the applicant —

            (i) is resident in Singapore; or

           (ii) if the applicant satisfies such conditions as may be
                 prescribed — belongs to a prescribed class of
                 persons;

     (d) in the case of an applicant that is a limited liability
          partnership — a partner or manager of the applicant —

            (i) is resident in Singapore; or

           (ii) if the applicant satisfies such conditions as may be
                 prescribed — belongs to a prescribed class of
                 persons;

     (e) the applicant satisfies such financial requirements as may
          be prescribed;

     (f) the Authority —

            (i) is satisfied that the applicant is a fit and proper
                 person under the Guidelines on Fit and Proper
                 Criteria;

           (ii) is satisfied as to the financial condition of the
                 applicant;

           (iii) is satisfied that the public interest will be served by
                 the granting of the licence; and

           (iv) is satisfied that the applicant meets such other criteria
                 for the grant of the licence as the Authority considers
                 relevant;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            241

       (g) the applicant satisfies such operational requirements as the
            Authority may specify; and

       (h) the application is accompanied by —

               (i) such information or documents as the Authority may
                   require; and

              (ii) a non-refundable application fee of a prescribed
                   amount that is payable in such manner as the
                   Authority may specify.

 (4) The Authority may at any time add to, vary or revoke any of the
conditions of a licence imposed under subsection (2)(a) or this
subsection.

 (5) The Authority must not refuse an application under
subsection (1) without giving the applicant an opportunity to be
heard.

 (6) Every licensee must, while its licence is in force, satisfy —

       (a) such financial requirements as may be prescribed or
            specified by the Authority by written notice; and

       (b) such operational requirements and other requirements as
            the Authority may specify by written notice.

 (7) A licensee that fails to comply with any requirement mentioned
in subsection (6) must immediately notify the Authority of the failure.

 (8) Where a licensee fails to comply with any requirement under
subsection (6) —

       (a) the Authority may, by written notice to that licensee, do
            either or both of the following:

               (i) restrict or suspend the operations of that licensee;

              (ii) give such directions to that licensee as the Authority
                   considers appropriate; and

       (b) that licensee must comply with that notice.

 (9) A licensee that, without reasonable cause, contravenes
subsection (6), or fails to comply with any condition imposed by
the Authority under subsection (2)(a) or (4), shall be guilty of an

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
242  NO. 18 OF 2022

offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Holding out as licensee

 139.—(1) A person must not hold himself, herself or itself out as a
licensee, unless the person has in force a licence.

 (2) An individual or a partnership must not hold himself, herself or
itself (as the case may be) out as carrying on from a place in
Singapore a business of providing any type of digital token service
outside of Singapore, unless the individual or partnership is a licensee
or exempt from section 137(1) under section 189.

 (3) A Singapore corporation must not hold itself out as carrying on
a business of providing digital token service outside of Singapore,
unless it is a licensee or exempt from section 137(3) under
section 189.

 (4) Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply to any person mentioned in
section 137(5).

 (5) A person that contravenes subsection (1), (2) or (3) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
            to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
            part of a day during which the offence continues after
            conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

 (6) For the purposes of subsection (3), “Singapore corporation” has
the meaning given by section 137(7).

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            243

Annual fees of licensees

 140.—(1) A licensee must pay to the Authority a prescribed annual
fee in such manner as the Authority may specify by written notice.

 (2) The Authority may, where the Authority considers it to be
appropriate in a particular case, waive, refund or remit the whole or
any part of any annual fee paid or payable to the Authority.

Lapsing, surrender, revocation or suspension of licence

 141.—(1) A licence lapses —

       (a) in the case of a licensee that is an entity, if the licensee is
            wound up or otherwise dissolved, whether in Singapore or
            elsewhere;

       (b) in the case of a licensee that is an individual, if the licensee
            dies, becomes mentally incapacitated or is adjudicated a
            bankrupt; or

       (c) upon the occurrence of such other event as may be
            prescribed.

 (2) The Authority may revoke a licence if —

       (a) it appears to the Authority that any of the following
            persons is not a fit and proper person under the Guidelines
            on Fit and Proper Criteria:

               (i) the licensee;

              (ii) any officer or employee of the licensee;

             (iii) where the licensee is a partnership — any partner of
                   that partnership;

             (iv) where the licensee is a limited liability partnership —
                   any partner or manager of that limited liability
                   partnership;

              (v) where the licensee is a corporation — any
                   5% controller, 12% controller, 20% controller or
                   indirect controller of the licensee;

       (b) it appears to the Authority that either of the following is not
            satisfactory:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
244  NO. 18 OF 2022

            (i) the financial standing of the licensee;

           (ii) the manner in which the licensee’s business is being
                 conducted;

     (c) the licensee has contravened, or continues to contravene,
          any provision of this Act, or has failed, or continues to fail,
          to comply with any condition or restriction imposed by the
          Authority under this Act;

     (d) the licensee has failed, or continues to fail, to comply with
          any written notice issued by the Authority under this Act;

     (e) it appears to the Authority that the licensee has failed, or
          continues to fail, to comply with any of the licensee’s
          obligations under or arising from —

            (i) this Part; or

           (ii) any written notice issued by the Authority under this
                 Act;

     (f) the licensee has provided to the Authority any information
          or document required under this Act that is false or
          misleading in a material particular;

     (g) it appears to the Authority that any of the following
          persons has not performed that person’s duties under this
          Act honestly or fairly:

            (i) the licensee;

           (ii) any officer or employee of the licensee;

           (iii) where the licensee is a partnership — any partner of
                 that partnership;

           (iv) where the licensee is a limited liability partnership —
                 any partner or manager of that limited liability
                 partnership;

     (h) it appears to the Authority that it would be contrary to the
          public interest for the licensee to continue its operations;

     (i) the licensee fails to pay the annual fee mentioned in
          section 140(1);

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            245

 (j) the licensee fails or ceases to carry on a business of
     providing any type of digital token service;

(k) in the case of a licensee that is a corporation —

        (i) the licensee fails or ceases to have an executive
            director who —

              (A) is resident in Singapore; or

              (B) belongs to the prescribed class of persons
                   mentioned in section 138(3)(b)(ii); or

       (ii) if any executive director of the licensee belongs to
            the prescribed class of persons mentioned in
            section 138(3)(b)(ii) — the licensee does not or
            ceases to satisfy any condition mentioned in
            section 138(3)(b)(ii);

 (l) in the case of a licensee that is a partnership —

        (i) the licensee fails or ceases to have a partner who —

              (A) is resident in Singapore; or

              (B) belongs to the prescribed class of persons
                   mentioned in section 138(3)(c)(ii); or

       (ii) if any partner of the licensee belongs to the
            prescribed class of persons mentioned in
            section 138(3)(c)(ii) — the licensee does not or
            ceases to satisfy any condition mentioned in
            section 138(3)(c)(ii); or

(m) in the case of a licensee that is a limited liability
     partnership —

        (i) the licensee fails or ceases to have a partner or
            manager who —

              (A) is resident in Singapore; or

              (B) belongs to the prescribed class of persons
                   mentioned in section 138(3)(d)(ii); or

       (ii) if any partner or manager of the licensee belongs to
            the prescribed class of persons mentioned in

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
246  NO. 18 OF 2022

                   section 138(3)(d)(ii) — the licensee does not or
                   ceases to satisfy any condition mentioned in
                   section 138(3)(d)(ii).

 (3) The Authority may, if the Authority considers it desirable to do
so —

       (a) suspend the licence of a licensee for a specified period,
            instead of revoking the licence under subsection (2); and

       (b) at any time —

               (i) extend the suspension for a specified period; or

              (ii) cancel the suspension.

 (4) Except as provided in subsection (5), the Authority must not
revoke a licence under subsection (2) or suspend a licence under
subsection (3), without giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard.

 (5) The Authority may revoke or suspend a licence of a licensee,
without giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard, in any of the
following circumstances:

       (a) in the case of a licensee that is an entity — the licensee is in
            the course of being wound up or otherwise dissolved,
            whether in Singapore or elsewhere;

       (b) a receiver, a receiver and manager, a judicial manager or an
            equivalent person has been appointed, whether in
            Singapore or elsewhere, for or in respect of any property
            of the licensee;

       (c) any of the following persons has been convicted, whether
            in Singapore or elsewhere, of an offence involving fraud or
            dishonesty, or of an offence the conviction for which
            involves a finding that the person convicted had acted
            fraudulently or dishonestly, whether the applicable offence
            is committed before, on or after the date of commencement
            of this paragraph:

               (i) the licensee;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            247

              (ii) in the case of a licensee that is a corporation — any
                   director, 5% controller, 12% controller,
                   20% controller or indirect controller of the licensee;

             (iii) in the case of a licensee that is a partnership — any
                   partner of that partnership; and

             (iv) in the case of a licensee that is a limited liability
                   partnership — any partner or manager of that limited
                   liability partnership.

 (6) A licensee whose licence has lapsed, or is revoked or
suspended, must cease to carry on the business of providing any
type of digital token service from the date the licence lapses, or the
revocation or suspension takes effect, as the case may be.

 (7) Despite the lapsing or revocation of a licence granted to a
person, unless the Authority otherwise directs, sections 145, 158,
169, 170 and 171, continue to apply in relation to the person in respect
of matters that occurred before the lapsing or revocation of the
licence.

 (8) A person that contravenes subsection (6) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (9) A licensee may surrender the licensee’s licence by submitting to
the Authority a written notice of surrender, in such form as may be
specified by the Authority by written notice.

 (10) Any surrender, lapsing, revocation or suspension of a person’s
licence —

       (a) does not avoid or affect any agreement, transaction or
            arrangement relating to the person’s business of providing
            any digital token service that is entered into by the person,
            whether the agreement, transaction or arrangement was
            entered into before or after the surrender, lapsing,
            revocation, or suspension (as the case may be) of the
            licence; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
248  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (b) does not affect any right, obligation or liability arising
            under any such agreement, transaction or arrangement.

Appeals to Minister

 142. Any person that is aggrieved —

       (a) by the refusal of the Authority to grant a licence to the
            person; or

       (b) by the revocation or suspension of the person’s licence by
            the Authority,

may, within 30 days after having been informed by the Authority of
the refusal, revocation or suspension, appeal in writing to the
Minister, whose decision is final.

                 Subdivision (2) — Conduct of business

Place of business of licensee

 143.—(1) A licensee must not carry on a business of providing any
type of digital token service unless the licensee has a permanent place
of business.

 (2) A licensee must appoint at least one person to be present, on
such days and at such hours as the Authority may specify by written
notice, at the licensee’s permanent place of business to respond to any
queries related to anti‑money laundering or countering the financing
of terrorism, or complaints from any digital token service user that
uses any digital token service provided by the licensee or is a
customer of the licensee.

 (3) A licensee must keep, or cause to be kept, at the licensee’s
permanent place of business, books of all the licensee’s transactions
in relation to any digital token service provided by the licensee.

 (4) A licensee must notify the Authority of any change in the
address of any of the following places within 7 days after the date of
that change:

       (a) the licensee’s permanent place of business or registered
            office;

       (b) every other place of business of the licensee.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            249

 (5) A licensee that contravenes subsection (1), (2) or (3) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (6) A licensee that contravenes subsection (4) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000.

Obligation of licensee to notify Authority of certain events

 144.—(1) A licensee must notify the Authority of the occurrence of
any of the following events as soon as practicable after that
occurrence:

       (a) any civil or criminal proceeding instituted against the
            licensee, whether in Singapore or elsewhere;

       (b) any event (including an irregularity in the operations of the
            licensee) that materially impedes or impairs the operations
            of the licensee;

       (c) the licensee being or becoming, or being likely to become,
            insolvent or unable to meet any of the licensee’s financial,
            statutory, contractual or other obligations;

       (d) any disciplinary action taken against the licensee by any
            regulatory authority (other than the Authority), whether in
            Singapore or elsewhere;

       (e) any significant change to the regulatory requirements
            imposed on the licensee by any regulatory authority (other
            than the Authority), whether in Singapore or elsewhere;

        (f) any other event that the Authority may prescribe or specify
            by written notice.

 (2) A licensee must notify the Authority of the occurrence of any
other event that the Authority may prescribe or specify by written
notice within 14 days after the date of that occurrence.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
250  NO. 18 OF 2022

 (3) A person that contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$250,000.

Obligation of licensee to provide information to Authority

 145.—(1) Subject to subsection (4), the Authority may, by written
notice, require any licensee, or any person acting on behalf of a
licensee, to provide to the Authority, within such period as the
Authority may specify in the notice, all such information relating to
the licensee’s business of providing any digital token service as the
Authority may specify in the notice.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may, in the notice
under that subsection, require any person mentioned in that
subsection to provide —

       (a) information relating to any of the following matters:

               (i) the operations of the licensee;

              (ii) the pricing of, or any other form of consideration for,
                   any digital token service offered or provided by the
                   licensee; and

       (b) such other information as the Authority may require for the
            purposes of this Part.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4) —

       (a) a requirement imposed by the Authority under this section
            has effect despite any obligation as to secrecy or other
            restrictions upon the disclosure of information imposed by
            any rule of law or contract; and

       (b) a person that complies with a requirement imposed by the
            Authority under this section is not to be treated as being in
            breach of any restriction on the disclosure of the
            information imposed by any rule of law or contract.

 (4) Nothing in this section requires a person to disclose any
information subject to legal privilege.

 (5) A person that fails to comply with a notice under subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            251

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $12,500
            or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or
            to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
            fine not exceeding $1,250 for every day or part of a day
            during which the offence continues after conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $25,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $2,500 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

Obligation of licensee to submit periodic reports

 146.—(1) A licensee must submit to the Authority such reports or
returns relating to the licensee’s business in such form, manner and
frequency as the Authority may specify by written notice.

 (2) A person that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Prohibition from carrying on certain businesses

 147.—(1) A licensee must not carry on a business of granting any
credit facility to any individual in Singapore.

 (2) A licensee that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (3) In this section, “credit facility” means —

       (a) any advance, loan or other facility that is granted by a
            licensee to a customer who is an individual, and that gives
            the customer access to any funds or financial guarantee
            provided by the licensee; or

       (b) any other liability that is incurred by a licensee on behalf of
            a customer who is an individual.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
252  NO. 18 OF 2022

         Subdivision (3) — Control of controllers of licensees

Application and interpretation of this Subdivision

 148.—(1) This Subdivision applies to —

       (a) every individual, whether or not resident in Singapore and
            whether or not a citizen of Singapore; and

       (b) every entity.

 (2) In this Subdivision, unless the context otherwise requires, a
reference to a licensee is a reference to a licensee incorporated in
Singapore.

Control of shareholding in licensee

 149.—(1) A person must not become a 20% controller of a licensee
without first applying for and obtaining the approval of the Authority
under subsection (2).

 (2) The Authority may approve an application made by any person
under subsection (1) if the Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) having regard to the likely influence of the person, the
            licensee will or will continue to conduct its business
            prudently and comply with the provisions of this Act and
            any other written law administered by the Authority;

       (b) the person is, under the Guidelines on Fit and Proper
            Criteria, a fit and proper person to be a 20% controller of
            the licensee; and

       (c) it is in the public interest to do so.

 (3) An approval under subsection (2) may be granted to any person
subject to such conditions as the Authority may impose, including but
not limited to —

       (a) any condition restricting the person’s disposal or further
            acquisition of shares or voting power in the licensee; and

       (b) any condition restricting the person’s exercise of voting
            power in the licensee.

 (4) The Authority may at any time add to, vary or revoke any
condition that is imposed under subsection (3) or this subsection.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            253

 (5) Any condition imposed under subsection (3) or (4) has effect
despite any provision of the Companies Act 1967 or anything
contained in the constitution of the licensee.

Objection to existing control of licensee

 150.—(1) The Authority may serve a written notice of objection on
any person that is, or is required to obtain or has obtained the
Authority’s approval under section 149(2) to become, a 20%
controller of a licensee, if the Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) any condition for approval under section 149(2) imposed
            on the person under section 149(3) or (4) has not been
            complied with;

       (b) it is not, or is no longer, in the public interest to allow the
            person to continue to be a 20% controller of the licensee;

       (c) the person has provided any false or misleading
            information or document in connection with an
            application under section 149(1);

       (d) the person is no longer a fit and proper person under the
            Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria;

       (e) having regard to the likely influence of the person, the
            licensee is no longer likely to conduct its business
            prudently or to comply with the provisions of this Part; or

        (f) the Authority would not have been satisfied as to any of the
            matters specified in section 149(2) had the Authority been
            aware, at that time, of circumstances relevant to the
            person’s application under section 149(1).

 (2) Before serving a written notice of objection under
subsection (1), the Authority must, unless the Authority decides
that it is not practicable or desirable to do so —

       (a) notify the person of the Authority’s intention to serve the
            written notice of objection; and

       (b) specify a date by which the person may make written
            representations with regard to the proposed written notice
            of objection.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
254  NO. 18 OF 2022

 (3) The Authority must consider any written representations that
the Authority receives before the date mentioned in subsection (2)(b),
for the purpose of determining whether to issue a written notice of
objection.

 (4) The Authority must, in any written notice of objection, specify a
reasonable period within which the person that has been served the
written notice of objection must —

       (a) cease to be a 20% controller of the licensee; or

       (b) comply with such direction as the Authority may make
            under section 151.

 (5) A person that has been served a written notice of objection must
comply with that notice.

Power of Authority to issue directions for this Subdivision

 151.—(1) If the Authority is satisfied that a person has contravened
section 149(1) or has failed to comply with any condition imposed
under section 149(3) or (4), or if the Authority has served a written
notice of objection under section 150, the Authority may, by written
notice —

       (a) direct the transfer or disposal of all or any of the shares in
            the licensee held by the person or any of the person’s
            associates (called in this section the specified shares)
            within such time or subject to such conditions as the
            Authority considers appropriate;

       (b) restrict the transfer or disposal of all or any of the specified
            shares; or

       (c) make such other direction as the Authority considers
            appropriate.

 (2) Where the Authority has issued any direction under
subsection (1)(a) or imposed any restriction under
subsection (1)(b), until a transfer or disposal is effected in
accordance with the direction or until the restriction on the transfer
or disposal is removed, as the case may be —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            255

       (a) no voting rights may be exercised in respect of the
            specified shares, unless the Authority expressly permits
            such rights to be exercised;

       (b) no shares of the licensee may be issued or offered (whether
            by way of rights, bonus or otherwise) in respect of the
            specified shares, unless the Authority expressly permits
            such issue or offer; and

       (c) except in a liquidation of the licensee, no payment may be
            made by the licensee of any amount (whether by way of
            dividends or otherwise) in respect of the specified shares,
            unless the Authority expressly authorises such payment.

 (3) Subsection (2) has effect despite any provision of the
Companies Act 1967 or anything contained in the constitution of
the licensee.

 (4) Any issue or offer of shares in contravention of
subsection (2)(b) is void, and a person to whom a direction has
been issued under subsection (1)(a) or on whom a restriction has been
imposed under subsection (1)(b) must immediately return those
shares to the licensee, upon which the licensee must return to the
person any payment received from the person in respect of those
shares.

 (5) Any payment made by a licensee in contravention of
subsection (2)(c) is void, and a person to whom a direction has
been issued under subsection (1)(a) or on whom a restriction has been
imposed under subsection (1)(b) must immediately return the
payment the person has received to the licensee.

Power of Authority to obtain information relating to this
Subdivision

 152.—(1) The Authority may, by written notice, direct a licensee to
obtain from any of its shareholders, and to provide to the Authority,
any information relating to the shareholder that the Authority may
require for either or both of the following purposes:

       (a) ascertaining or investigating into the control of
            shareholding or voting power in the licensee;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
256  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (b) exercising any power or function under section 149, 150,
            151, 153 or 189.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the notice in that subsection
may require the licensee to obtain and provide the following
information:

       (a) whether the shareholder has an interest in any share in the
            licensee as beneficial owner or as trustee;

       (b) if the shareholder holds the interest in the share as trustee,
            to indicate as far as that shareholder is able to —

               (i) the person for whom that shareholder holds the
                   interest (either by name or by other particulars
                   sufficient to enable that person to be identified); and

              (ii) the nature of that person’s interest.

 (3) The Authority may, by written notice, require any
shareholder (X) of a licensee, or any person (Y) that appears from
information provided to the Authority under subsection (1) or this
subsection to have an interest in any share in the licensee, to provide
to the Authority any information relating to X or Y (as the case may
be) that the Authority may require for either or both of the following
purposes:

       (a) ascertaining or investigating into the control of
            shareholding or voting power in the licensee;

       (b) exercising any power or function under section 149, 150,
            151, 153 or 189.

 (4) Without limiting subsection (3), the notice in that subsection
may require X or Y to provide the following information:

       (a) whether X or Y holds the interest as beneficial owner or as
            trustee;

       (b) if X or Y holds the interest as trustee, to indicate as far as X
            or Y can —

               (i) the person (Z) for whom X or Y holds the interest
                   (either by name or by other particulars sufficient to
                   enable Z to be identified); and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            257

              (ii) the nature of Z’s interest;

       (c) whether any share or any voting right attached to the share
            is the subject of an agreement or arrangement described in
            section 136(2)(c)(vi), and if so, to give particulars of the
            agreement or arrangement and the parties to it.

Offences, penalties and defences

 153.—(1) A person that —

       (a) contravenes section 149(1) or 150(5) or does any act in
            contravention of section 151(2);

       (b) fails to comply with —

               (i) any written notice issued under section 151(1) or
                   152(1) or (3); or

              (ii) any condition imposed under section 149(3) or (4);
                   or

       (c) in purported compliance with a written notice issued under
            section 152(1) or (3), knowingly or recklessly provides any
            information or document that is false or misleading in a
            material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) A person convicted of an offence under subsection (1) shall be
liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
            to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
            part of a day during which the offence continues after
            conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
258  NO. 18 OF 2022

 (3) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 149(1), it is a defence for the person to prove
that —

       (a) the person was not aware that the person had contravened
            section 149(1), as the case may be;

       (b) within 14 days after becoming aware of the contravention,
            the person notified the Authority of the contravention; and

       (c) within such reasonable time as may be determined by the
            Authority, the person took such action in relation to the
            person’s shareholding or control of the voting power in the
            licensee as the Authority may direct.

 (4) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 149(1), it is also a defence for the person to
prove that, even though the person was aware of the contravention —

       (a) the contravention occurred as a result of an increase in the
            shareholding as described in section 136(2)(a) of, or in the
            voting power controlled by, any of the person’s associates
            described in section 136(2)(c)(i);

       (b) the person had no agreement or arrangement (whether oral
            or in writing and whether express or implied) with that
            associate —

               (i) with respect to the acquisition, holding or disposal of
                   shares or other interests in the licensee; or

              (ii) under which the person and that associate act
                   together in exercising their voting power in
                   relation to the licensee;

       (c) within 14 days after the date of the contravention, the
            person notified the Authority of the contravention; and

       (d) within such reasonable time as may be determined by the
            Authority, the person took such action in relation to the
            person’s shareholding or control of the voting power in the
            licensee as the Authority may direct.

 (5) Except as provided in subsections (3) and (4), it is not a defence
for a person charged with an offence in respect of a contravention of

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            259

section 149(1) to prove that the person did not intend to, or did not
knowingly, contravene that provision.

Appeals to Minister

 154. Any person that is aggrieved by a decision of the Authority
under section 149, 150 or 151 may, within 30 days after receiving the
decision of the Authority, appeal in writing to the Minister, whose
decision is final.

           Subdivision (4) — Control of officers of licensees

Approval of chief executive officer, director, partner or
manager of licensee

 155.—(1) Subject to subsections (4) and (5) —

       (a) an individual may not be appointed as a chief executive
            officer or as a director of a licensee that is a corporation;

       (b) an individual may not be appointed as manager, or become
            a partner, of a licensee that is a limited liability partnership;
            and

       (c) an individual may not become a partner in a licensee that is
            a partnership,

without the approval of the Authority upon an application made by
the licensee concerned.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) must be made in the form
and manner prescribed.

 (3) Without affecting any other matter that the Authority may
consider relevant, the Authority may —

       (a) in determining whether to grant its approval under
            paragraph (b), have regard to such criteria as the
            Authority may specify by written notice to the licensee;
            and

       (b) approve or refuse the application.

 (4) Where a licensee that is a corporation has obtained the approval
of the Authority under subsection (3)(b) to appoint an individual as

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
260  NO. 18 OF 2022

the licensee’s chief executive officer or director, the individual may,
without the approval of the Authority, be re‑appointed as chief
executive officer or director (as the case may be) of the licensee
immediately upon the expiry of the individual’s term of appointment.

 (5) Where a licensee that is a limited liability partnership has
obtained the approval of the Authority under subsection (3)(b) to
appoint an individual as the licensee’s manager, the individual may,
without the approval of the Authority, be re‑appointed as manager of
the licensee immediately upon the expiry of the individual’s term of
appointment.

 (6) Subject to subsection (7), the Authority must not refuse a
licensee’s application under subsection (1) without giving the
licensee an opportunity to be heard.

 (7) The Authority may refuse an application under subsection (1)
for the Authority’s approval under subsection (3)(b) of an individual
without giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard, in any of the
following circumstances:

       (a) the individual has been convicted, whether in Singapore or
            elsewhere, of any of the following offences, whether the
            offence is committed before, on or after the date of
            commencement of this paragraph:

               (i) an offence involving fraud or dishonesty;

              (ii) an offence the conviction for which involves a
                   finding that the individual had acted fraudulently or
                   dishonestly;

             (iii) an offence that is specified in the Third Schedule to
                   the Registration of Criminals Act 1949;

       (b) the individual is an undischarged bankrupt, whether in
            Singapore or elsewhere;

       (c) the individual has had an enforcement order against the
            individual in respect of a judgment debt returned
            unsatisfied in whole or in part;

       (d) the individual has, whether in Singapore or elsewhere,
            entered into a compromise or scheme of arrangement with

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            261

            the individual’s creditors, being a compromise or scheme
            of arrangement that is still in operation;

       (e) the individual has in force against the individual a
            prohibition order;

        (f) the individual has been a director of, or directly concerned
            in the management of, a regulated financial institution,
            whether in Singapore or elsewhere —

               (i) that is being or has been wound up by a court; or

              (ii) the approval, authorisation, designation, recognition,
                   registration or licence of which has been withdrawn,
                   cancelled or revoked by the Authority or, in the case
                   of a regulated financial institution in a foreign
                   country or territory, by the financial regulatory
                   authority in that foreign country or territory.

 (8) Where the Authority refuses an application under subsection (1)
for the Authority’s approval under subsection (3)(b), the Authority
need not give the individual who was proposed to be appointed an
opportunity to be heard.

 (9) A licensee that, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

 (10) In this section —

      “prohibition order” means —

              (a) a prohibition order made under section 68(1) of the
                   Financial Advisers Act 2001 as in force immediately
                   before the date of commencement of
                   section 200(1)(b) and (2) to (7) of this Act;

              (b) a prohibition order made under section 68(1) of the
                   Financial Advisers Act 2001 as in force immediately
                   before the date of commencement of
                   section 200(1)(b) and (2) to (7) of this Act, and as
                   continued by section 217(2) of this Act;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
262  NO. 18 OF 2022

              (c) an order made under section 74(1) of the Insurance
                   Act 1966 as in force immediately before the date of
                   commencement of section 204(1) to (4) of this Act;

              (d) an order made under section 74(1) of the Insurance
                   Act 1966 as in force immediately before the date of
                   commencement of section 204(1) to (4) of this Act,
                   and as continued by section 218(2) of this Act;

              (e) a prohibition order made under section 101A(1) of
                   the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force
                   immediately before the date of commencement of
                   section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and
                   (18) of this Act;

              (f) a prohibition order made under section 101A(1) of
                   the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force
                   immediately before the date of commencement of
                   section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and
                   (18) of this Act, and as continued by section 220(3) of
                   this Act; or

              (g) a prohibition order made under section 7(1) of this
                   Act.

Removal of chief executive officer, director, partner or
manager

 156.—(1) Despite the provisions of any other written law, where
the Authority is satisfied that an individual who is a chief executive
officer, director, partner or manager of a licensee is not a fit and
proper person under the Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria to act as
such chief executive officer, director, partner or manager, the
Authority may, by written notice, direct the licensee to remove the
individual, within such period as the Authority may specify in the
notice —

       (a) from employment with the licensee;

       (b) as chief executive officer or director of the licensee; or

       (c) as partner or manager of the licensee.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            263

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Authority may (without
affecting the generality of that provision) be satisfied that an
individual who is a chief executive officer, director, partner or
manager of a licensee is not a fit and proper person under the
Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria to act as such if the individual
fails to discharge such duties relating to the individual’s office or
employment as chief executive officer, director, partner or manager
(as the case may be) as may be prescribed.

 (3) Without affecting any other matter that the Authority may
consider relevant, in assessing whether to direct the licensee to
remove an individual under subsection (1), the Authority may
consider whether the individual —

       (a) has been convicted, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, of
            any of the following offences, whether the offence is
            committed before, on or after the date of commencement
            of this paragraph:

               (i) an offence involving fraud or dishonesty;

              (ii) an offence the conviction for which involves a
                   finding that the individual had acted fraudulently or
                   dishonestly;

             (iii) an offence that is specified in the Third Schedule to
                   the Registration of Criminals Act 1949;

       (b) is an undischarged bankrupt, whether in Singapore or
            elsewhere;

       (c) has had an enforcement order against the individual in
            respect of a judgment debt returned unsatisfied in whole or
            in part;

       (d) has, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, entered into a
            compromise or scheme of arrangement with the
            individual’s creditors, being a compromise or scheme of
            arrangement that is still in operation;

       (e) has in force against the individual a prohibition order;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
264  NO. 18 OF 2022

        (f) has been a director of, or directly concerned in the
            management of, a regulated financial institution, whether
            in Singapore or elsewhere —

               (i) that is being or has been wound up by a court; or

              (ii) the approval, authorisation, designation, recognition,
                   registration or licence of which has been withdrawn,
                   cancelled or revoked by the Authority or, in the case
                   of a regulated financial institution in a foreign
                   country or territory, by the financial regulatory
                   authority in that foreign country or territory;

       (g) has wilfully contravened, or wilfully caused the licensee to
            contravene, any provision of this Act;

       (h) has, without reasonable excuse, failed to secure the
            compliance of the licensee with this Act, the Monetary
            Authority of Singapore Act 1970 or any of the other
            written laws set out in the Schedule to the Monetary
            Authority of Singapore Act 1970;

        (i) has failed to discharge any of the duties of the individual’s
            office or employment; or

        (j) needs to be removed in the public interest.

 (4) Without prejudice to any other matter that the Authority may
consider relevant, the Authority must, in determining whether an
individual has failed to discharge the duties of the individual’s office
or employment for the purposes of subsection (3)(i), have regard to
such criteria as may be prescribed.

 (5) Subject to subsection (6), before directing a licensee to remove
an individual under subsection (1), the Authority must give both the
licensee and the individual an opportunity to be heard.

 (6) The Authority may direct a licensee to remove an individual
under subsection (1) on any of the following grounds without giving
the licensee or the individual an opportunity to be heard:

       (a) the individual is an undischarged bankrupt, whether in
            Singapore or elsewhere;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            265

       (b) the individual has been convicted, whether in Singapore or
            elsewhere, of an offence, whether committed before, on or
            after the date of commencement of this paragraph —

               (i) involving fraud or dishonesty, or the conviction for
                   which involves a finding that the individual had
                   acted fraudulently or dishonestly; and

              (ii) punishable with imprisonment for a term of at least
                   3 months.

 (7) Without affecting the Authority’s power to impose conditions
under section 138(2)(a) or (4), the Authority may at any time, by
written notice to a licensee, impose or vary a condition requiring the
licensee to notify the Authority of any change to any particulars (such
as residence in Singapore or elsewhere, or nature of appointment) of
its chief executive officer, director, partner or manager that may be
specified in the notice.

 (8) A licensee that, without reasonable excuse —

       (a) fails to comply with a written notice under subsection (1);
            or

       (b) contravenes any condition imposed under subsection (7),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $100,000.

 (9) No civil or criminal liability is incurred by a licensee, or any
person acting on behalf of the licensee, in respect of anything done
(including any notification made) or omitted to be done with
reasonable care and in good faith in the discharge or purported
discharge of the obligations of the licensee under this section.

 (10) In this section, “prohibition order” means —

       (a) a prohibition order made under section 68(1) of the
            Financial Advisers Act 2001 as in force immediately
            before the date of commencement of section 200(1)(b) and
            (2) to (7) of this Act;

       (b) a prohibition order made under section 68(1) of the
            Financial Advisers Act 2001 as in force immediately
            before the date of commencement of section 200(1)(b) and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
266  NO. 18 OF 2022

            (2) to (7) of this Act, and as continued by section 217(2) of
            this Act;

       (c) an order made under section 74(1) of the Insurance
            Act 1966 as in force immediately before the date of
            commencement of section 204(1) to (4) of this Act;

       (d) an order made under section 74(1) of the Insurance
            Act 1966 as in force immediately before the date of
            commencement of section 204(1) to (4) of this Act, and as
            continued by section 218(2) of this Act;

       (e) a prohibition order made under section 101A(1) of the
            Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force immediately
            before the date of commencement of section 209(1)(a), (c)
            and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and (18) of this Act;

        (f) a prohibition order made under section 101A(1) of the
            Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force immediately
            before the date of commencement of section 209(1)(a), (c)
            and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and (18) of this Act, and as
            continued by section 220(3) of this Act; or

       (g) a prohibition order made under section 7(1) of this Act.

Appeals to Minister

 157.—(1) A licensee that is aggrieved by a decision of the
Authority under section 155(3)(b) may, within 30 days after
receiving the decision of the Authority, appeal in writing to the
Minister, whose decision is final.

 (2) A licensee, or any chief executive officer, director, partner or
manager of that licensee, that is aggrieved by a written notice of the
Authority under section 156(1) may, within 30 days after receiving
the notice, appeal in writing to the Minister, whose decision is final.

                   Subdivision (5) — Audit of licensees

Auditing

 158.—(1) Despite the provisions of the Companies Act 1967, a
licensee —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            267

       (a) must, on an annual basis and at its own expense, appoint an
            auditor; and

       (b) if for any reason its auditor ceases to be its auditor, must
            appoint another auditor as soon as practicable after such
            cessation.

 (2) The Authority may appoint an auditor for a licensee —

       (a) if the licensee fails to appoint an auditor; or

       (b) if the Authority considers it desirable that another auditor
            should act with the auditor appointed under subsection (1).

 (3) The Authority may at any time fix the remuneration to be paid
by a licensee to an auditor appointed by the Authority under
subsection (2) for the licensee.

 (4) The duties of an auditor appointed under subsection (1) or (2)
are as follows:

       (a) to carry out an audit of the transactions in relation to the
            digital token services provided by the licensee, in
            particular, in respect of the licensee’s observance of the
            provisions of this Act and any of the requirements imposed
            under any other written law administered by the Authority;

       (b) to submit a report of such audit to the Authority in such
            form as may be prescribed and within such time as the
            Authority may allow.

 (5) The Authority may, by written notice to an auditor, impose all or
any of the following duties on the auditor in addition to those
provided under subsection (4), and the auditor must carry out the
duties so imposed:

       (a) a duty to submit such additional information in relation to
            the audit as the Authority considers necessary;

       (b) a duty to enlarge or extend the scope of the audit of the
            licensee’s business and affairs;

       (c) a duty to carry out any other examination, or establish any
            procedure, in relation to the audit in any particular case;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
268  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (d) a duty to submit a report on any of the matters mentioned in
            paragraphs (b) and (c).

 (6) The licensee must remunerate the auditor in respect of —

       (a) any remuneration the Authority has fixed under
            subsection (3); and

       (b) the discharge of all or any of the additional duties of the
            auditor imposed under subsection (5).

 (7) Despite any other provision of this Part or the provisions of the
Companies Act 1967, the Authority may, if the Authority is not
satisfied with the performance of any duty by the auditor of a
licensee, at any time direct the licensee to —

       (a) remove the auditor; and

       (b) appoint another auditor.

 (8) A copy of any report under subsection (5)(d) must be submitted
in writing to the Authority.

 (9) If an auditor, in the course of performing the auditor’s duties, is
satisfied that any of the following matters has occurred, the auditor
must immediately report that matter to the Authority:

       (a) there has been a serious breach or non‑observance of the
            provisions of this Act or any of the requirements imposed
            under any other written law administered by the Authority;

       (b) a criminal offence involving fraud or dishonesty has been
            committed;

       (c) in the case of a licensee that is a corporation, losses have
            been incurred that reduce the capital of the licensee by at
            least 50%;

       (d) there is any irregularity that has or may have a material
            effect on the accounts of the licensee, including any
            irregularity that had caused a major disruption to the
            provision of any type of digital token service to the
            customers of the licensee;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            269

       (e) the auditor is unable to confirm that the claims of creditors
            of the licensee are still covered by the assets of the
            licensee.

 (10) Where an auditor or employee of the auditor discloses in good
faith to the Authority —

       (a) the auditor’s or employee’s knowledge or suspicion of any
            of the matters mentioned in subsection (9); or

       (b) any information or other matter on which that knowledge
            or suspicion is based,

the disclosure is not a breach of any restriction upon the disclosure
imposed by any law, contract or rules of professional conduct, and the
auditor or employee is not liable for any loss arising out of the
disclosure or any act or omission in consequence of the disclosure.

 (11) A licensee that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (12) An auditor that contravenes subsection (5) or (9) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (13) In this section —

      “capital”, in relation to a corporation, means the sum of —

              (a) all of the following items in the latest accounts of the
                   corporation:

                     (i) paid up ordinary share capital;

                     (ii) paid up irredeemable and non‑cumulative
                          preference share capital; and

              (b) any unappropriated profit or loss in the latest audited
                   accounts of the corporation,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
270  NO. 18 OF 2022

        less —

             (c) any interim loss in the latest accounts of the
                  corporation; and

             (d) any dividend that has been declared since the latest
                  audited accounts of the corporation;

     “irredeemable and non-cumulative preference share capital”, in
        relation to the capital of a corporation, means share capital
        consisting of preference shares that satisfy all of the
        following requirements:

             (a) the principal of each share of the corporation is
                  perpetual;

             (b) the shares of the corporation are not callable at the
                  initiative of the corporation or the shareholders, and
                  the principal of the shares cannot be repaid outside of
                  liquidation of the corporation, except in the case of a
                  repurchase or other manner of reduction of share
                  capital that is initiated by the corporation and
                  permitted under written law;

             (c) the corporation has full discretion to cancel dividend
                  payments, and —

                    (i) the cancellation of dividend payments is not an
                         event of default of the corporation under any
                         agreement;

                    (ii) the corporation has full access to cancelled
                         dividend payments to meet its obligations as
                         they fall due; and

                   (iii) the cancellation of dividend payments does not
                         result in any restriction being imposed on the
                         corporation under any agreement, except in
                         relation to dividend payments to ordinary
                         shareholders of the corporation.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            271

Powers of auditor appointed by Authority

 159.—(1) An auditor appointed by the Authority under
section 158(2) may, for the purpose of carrying out an examination
or audit —

       (a) examine, on oath or affirmation, any officer or employee of
            the licensee or any other auditor of the licensee;

       (b) require any officer or employee of the licensee, or any
            other auditor of the licensee, to produce any books held by
            or on behalf of the licensee relating to the licensee’s
            business;

       (c) make copies of or take extracts from, or retain possession
            of, any books mentioned in paragraph (b) for such period
            as may be necessary to enable those books to be inspected;

       (d) employ such persons as the auditor considers necessary to
            assist the auditor in carrying out the examination or audit;
            and

       (e) authorise in writing any person employed by the auditor to
            do, in relation to the examination or audit, any act or thing
            that the auditor could do as an auditor under this
            subsection, other than the examination of a person on
            oath or affirmation.

 (2) An individual who, without reasonable excuse —

       (a) refuses or fails to answer any question put to the
            individual; or

       (b) fails to comply with any request made to the individual,

by an auditor appointed under section 158(2) or a person authorised
under subsection (1)(e), shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $12,500 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
272  NO. 18 OF 2022

Restriction on auditor’s and employee’s right to communicate
certain matters

 160.—(1) Except as may be necessary for the carrying into effect of
the provisions of this Part or so far as may be required for the
purposes of any legal proceedings, whether civil or criminal —

       (a) an auditor appointed under section 158(1) or (2); or

       (b) any employee of such auditor,

must not disclose any information that comes to the auditor’s or
employee’s knowledge in the course of performing the auditor’s or
employee’s duties, to any person other than the Authority or, in the
case of an employee of such auditor, the auditor.

 (2) A person that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of the auditor, to a fine not exceeding $25,000;
            or

       (b) in the case of the employee, to a fine not exceeding
            $12,500.

Offence to destroy, conceal, alter, etc., records

 161.—(1) An individual who, with intent to prevent, delay or
obstruct the carrying out of any examination or audit under
section 158 or 159 —

       (a) destroys, conceals or alters any book relating to the
            business of a licensee; or

       (b) sends, or conspires with any other person to send, out of
            Singapore any book or asset of any description belonging
            to, in the possession of or under the control of the licensee,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (2) If, in any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is
proved that the individual charged with the offence —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            273

       (a) destroyed, concealed or altered any book mentioned in
            subsection (1)(a); or

       (b) sent, or conspired to send, out of Singapore any book or
            asset mentioned in subsection (1)(b),

the onus of proving that, in so doing, the individual did not act with
intent to prevent, delay or obstruct the carrying out of an examination
or audit under section 158 or 159 lies on the individual.

                           Division 3 — Offences

Falsification of records by officers, etc.

 162.—(1) An officer, auditor, employee or agent of a licensee
who —

       (a) wilfully makes, or causes to be made, a false entry in any
            book, or in any report, slip, document or statement of the
            business, affairs, transactions, conditions or assets of the
            licensee;

       (b) wilfully omits to make an entry in any book, or in any
            report, slip, document or statement of the business, affairs,
            transactions, conditions or assets of the licensee, or
            wilfully causes any such entry to be omitted; or

       (c) wilfully alters, extracts, conceals or destroys an entry in
            any book, or in any report, slip, document or statement of
            the business, affairs, transactions, conditions or assets of
            the licensee, or wilfully causes any such entry to be altered,
            extracted, concealed or destroyed,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both.

 (2) In this section, “officer” includes a person purporting to act in
the capacity of an officer.

General penalty

 163. A person guilty of an offence under this Part for which no
penalty is expressly provided shall be liable on conviction —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
274  NO. 18 OF 2022

     (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
          $50,000; or

     (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

                        Division 4 — Miscellaneous

Power of court to make certain orders

 164.—(1) Where, on an application of the Authority, it appears to
the court that a person —

       (a) has committed an offence under this Part; or

       (b) is about to do an act that, if done, would be an offence
            under this Part,

the court may (without prejudice to any other order it may make)
make one or more of the orders under subsection (2).

 (2) The orders mentioned in subsection (1) are —

       (a) in the case of a persistent or continuing contravention of a
            provision of this Part, an order restraining a person from —

               (i) carrying on a business of providing digital token
                   services; or

              (ii) holding himself, herself or itself out as a licensee;

       (b) for the purpose of securing compliance with any order
            made under this section, an order directing a person to do
            or refrain from doing any specified act; and

       (c) any ancillary order the court considers to be desirable as a
            result of making any other order under this section.

 (3) The court may, before making an order under subsection (2),
direct that notice of the application be given to such person as it thinks
fit or that notice of the application be published in such manner as it
thinks fit, or both.

 (4) A person that, without reasonable excuse, contravenes an order
made under subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            275

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $50,000
            or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
            both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

 (5) Subject to subsection (6), subsection (4) does not affect the
powers of the court in relation to the punishment of contempt of court.

 (6) A person cannot be punished for contempt of court in respect of
any contravention of an order made under subsection (2), for which
the person has been convicted of an offence under subsection (4).

 (7) A person cannot be convicted of an offence under subsection (4)
in respect of any contravention of an order made under subsection (2)
that has been punished as a contempt of court.

 (8) The court may rescind, vary or discharge, or suspend the
operation of, an order made by the court under this section.

Codes, guidelines, etc., by Authority

 165.—(1) The Authority may issue and publish by notification in
the Gazette or in any other manner the Authority considers
appropriate, such codes, guidelines, policy statements, practice
notes and no‑action letters as the Authority considers appropriate
for providing guidance —

       (a) in furtherance of the Authority’s regulatory objectives
            under this Part;

       (b) in relation to any matter relating to any of the Authority’s
            functions under this Part; or

       (c) in relation to the operation of any of the provisions of this
            Part.

 (2) The Authority may, at any time, amend or revoke the whole or
any part of any code, guideline, policy statement, practice note or
no‑action letter issued under this section.

 (3) Where amendments are made under subsection (2) —

       (a) the other provisions of this section apply, with the
            necessary modifications, to such amendments as they

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
276  NO. 18 OF 2022

            apply to the code, guideline, policy statement, practice note
            or no‑action letter; and

       (b) any reference in this Part or any other written law to the
            code, guideline, policy statement, practice note or
            no‑action letter, however expressed, is (unless the
            context otherwise requires) a reference to the code,
            guideline, policy statement, practice note or no‑action
            letter as so amended.

 (4) Any failure by a person to comply with any provision of a code,
guideline, policy statement or practice note issued under this section
to the person does not of itself render that person liable to criminal
proceedings, but any such failure may, in any proceedings, whether
civil or criminal, be relied upon by any party to the proceedings as
tending to establish or negate any liability that is in question in the
proceedings.

 (5) The issue by the Authority of a no‑action letter does not of itself
prevent the institution of any proceedings against any person for the
contravention of any provision of this Part.

 (6) Any code, guideline, policy statement or practice note issued
under this section may be of general or specific application, and may
specify that different provisions of such code, guideline, policy
statement or practice note apply to different circumstances or provide
for different cases or classes of cases.

 (7) To avoid doubt, any code, guideline, policy statement, practice
note or no‑action letter issued under this section is not to be treated as
subsidiary legislation.

 (8) In this section, “no-action letter” means a letter written by the
Authority to a person to the effect that, if the facts are as represented
by the person, the Authority will not institute proceedings against the
person in respect of a particular state of affairs or particular conduct.

Power of Authority to issue written notice

 166.—(1) The Authority may, if the Authority thinks it necessary or
expedient for the effective administration of this Part, for the
protection of consumers or in the interest of the public or a section

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            277

of the public, issue to any of the following persons or classes of
persons a written notice, either of a general or a specific nature, to
comply with such requirements as the Authority may specify in the
notice:

       (a) any licensee or class of licensees;

       (b) any person, or class of persons, exempt under section 189;

       (c) any person that contravenes, has contravened, or is likely
            to contravene, any provision of this Part.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), a notice may be issued —

       (a) with respect to —

               (i) the activities that may be carried out by a licensee or
                   a person exempt under section 189, in relation to its
                   business;

              (ii) the standards, framework, policies and procedures
                   for the prudent management of risks (including
                   information technology risks) by a licensee or a
                   person exempt under section 189;

             (iii) the financial soundness, financial management and
                   stability of a licensee or a person exempt under
                   section 189;

             (iv) the standards to be maintained by a licensee or a
                   person exempt under section 189, in the conduct of
                   its business;

              (v) the arrangement and conditions that are to apply if a
                   licensee or a person exempt under section 189,
                   appoints any person as an independent contractor to
                   carry out the functions and duties of the licensee or
                   person exempt under section 189, as the case may be;

             (vi) the type, form, manner and frequency of returns and
                   other information to be submitted to the Authority;

            (vii) the preparation and publication of reports on the
                   performance of a licensee or a person exempt under
                   section 189;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
278  NO. 18 OF 2022

         (viii) the remuneration of an auditor appointed under this
                 Part and the costs of an audit carried out under this
                 Part;

           (ix) the collection by or on behalf of the Authority of
                 information from a licensee or a person exempt
                 under section 189, in relation to the conduct of its
                 business at such intervals or on such occasions as
                 may be set out in the notice;

            (x) the manner in which a licensee or a person exempt
                 under section 189, deals with its customers, and any
                 conflicts of interests between the licensee or person
                 exempt under section 189 (as the case may be) and its
                 customers;

           (xi) the display or exhibition by a licensee or a person
                 exempt under section 189, of such cautionary
                 statements as the Authority thinks fit in a
                 conspicuous place at every place of business or
                 website of the licensee, or person exempt under
                 section 189; and

          (xii) the provision by a licensee or a person exempt under
                 section 189, of cautionary statements in writing to
                 the customers or prospective customers of the
                 licensee or person exempt under section 189;

     (b) to require any person that contravenes, has contravened, or
          is likely to contravene any provision of this Part —

            (i) to comply with, or to cease contravening, that
                 provision;

           (ii) to take any action necessary to enable the person to
                 conduct the person’s business in accordance with
                 sound principles; and

           (iii) where the person is a company or a VCC, to remove
                 any of its directors; and

     (c) for any other purpose specified in this Part.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            279

 (3) It is not necessary to publish any written notice issued under
subsection (1) or under any other provision of this Part in the Gazette.

 (4) The Authority may at any time vary, rescind or revoke any
notice issued under subsection (1).

 (5) A person that fails to comply with any requirement specified in
a notice issued under subsection (1) shall (if the failure to comply
with that requirement is not itself an offence under any other
provision of this Part) be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every
day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

Power of Authority to make regulations

 167.—(1) Regulations may be made under section 192 for or with
respect to —

       (a) the fees to be paid in respect of any matter or thing required
            for the purposes of this Part, and the refund or remission of
            the whole or any part of any such fees;

       (b) the granting, lapsing, surrender, revocation or suspension
            of a licence, and all incidental matters;

       (c) the requirements which a licensee or person exempt under
            section 189 must comply with when ceasing or intending to
            cease the provision of a digital token service and all
            incidental matters;

       (d) the requirements which a licensee or a person exempt
            under section 189 must comply with to ensure proper
            corporate governance of the licensee or person;

       (e) the requirements applicable to a licensee or person exempt
            under section 189, including requirements in relation to the
            fitness and propriety of the licensee, the person exempt
            under section 189, or the chief executive officer or
            equivalent person of the licensee or person exempt under
            section 189, as the case may be;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
280  NO. 18 OF 2022

        (f) the rules for the use of the electronic service mentioned in
            section 187; and

       (g) the procedure to be applied where there is a breakdown or
            an interruption of the electronic service mentioned in
            section 187.

 (2) Regulations mentioned in subsection (1) may relate to all, or
any class, category or description of persons or digital token services,
and may make different provisions for different classes, categories or
descriptions of persons or digital token services or to a particular
person or digital token service.

                                   PART 10
              INSPECTION POWERS OF AUTHORITY
Interpretation of this Part
 168. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “book” has the meaning given by section 17;
      “licensee” has the meaning given by section 136(1);
      “prescribed financial institution” has the meaning given by
         section 28B;

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2023 wef 01/04/2024]

      “relevant person” means a person mentioned in
         section 169(1)(a), (ba), (c), (e) or (f).

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2023 wef 01/04/2024]

Inspection by Authority
 169.—(1) The Authority may from time to time inspect, under

conditions of secrecy, the books of any of the following persons:
       (a) a financial institution, for the purpose of determining the
            extent of compliance by the financial institution with the
            directions issued under, and the regulations mentioned in,
            sections 15(1) and 16(1);
       (b) any subsidiary, branch, agency or office outside Singapore
            of a financial institution incorporated or established in

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            281

      Singapore, for the purpose of determining the extent of
      compliance by the financial institution with the directions
      issued under, and the regulations mentioned in,
      sections 15(1) and 16(1);

(ba) a prescribed financial institution (A) —

         (i) where A requests risk information from another
             prescribed financial institution purportedly under
             section 28D, for the purpose of —

              (A) determining whether the request falls within
                    section 28D(1); or

               (B) determining whether A has complied with
                    section 28D(2) or (3);

        (ii) where a prescribed financial institution requests risk
             information from A under section 28D, for the
             purpose of determining whether A has complied
             with section 28D(6) or (7);

       (iii) where A discloses to another prescribed financial
             institution any risk information purportedly under
             section 28E, for the purpose of —

              (A) determining whether the disclosure falls within
                    section 28E(1); or

               (B) determining whether A has complied with
                    section 28E(2);

       (iv) where A publishes risk information purportedly
             under section 28F, for the purpose of —

              (A) determining whether all the conditions
                    mentioned in section 28F(1) have been
                    satisfied; or

               (B) determining whether A has complied with
                    section 28F(2);

        (v) for the purpose of determining whether A has made
             any false or misleading disclosure, publication or
             correction in contravention of section 28J; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
282  NO. 18 OF 2022

             (vi) for the purpose of determining whether A has
                   complied with section 28G(2), 28K(1) or 28N(2)
                   or a requirement of a written notice issued under
                   section 28H;

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2023 wef 01/04/2024]

       (c) a financial institution, for the purpose of determining the
            extent of compliance by the financial institution with the
            directions issued under, and the regulations mentioned in,
            section 29(1);

       (d) any subsidiary, branch, agency or office outside Singapore
            of a financial institution incorporated or established in
            Singapore, for the purpose of determining the extent of
            compliance by the financial institution with the directions
            issued under, and the regulations mentioned in,
            section 29(1);

       (e) a licensee, for a purpose other than the purpose mentioned
            in sub‑paragraph (a) or (c);

        (f) a person exempt under section 189, for a purpose other
            than the purpose mentioned in sub‑paragraph (a) or (c).

 (2) The Authority may appoint any person, including an auditor
(not being an auditor of the relevant person), to carry out an
inspection under this section.

 (3) If the inspection is carried out on the ground that the Authority
has reason to believe that —

       (a) the financial institution has contravened or is contravening
            any direction issued under, or regulations mentioned in,
            section 15, 16 or 29;

       (b) the licensee has contravened or is contravening any
            provision of Part 9; or

       (c) the person exempt under section 189 has contravened or is
            contravening any provision of Part 9,

and if the Authority so directs, then the financial institution, licensee
or person exempt under section 189 (as the case may be) is liable to

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            283

pay for the remuneration and expenses of any person appointed under
subsection (2) for the inspection.

 (4) The Authority may recover from the relevant person the
remuneration and expenses referred to in subsection (3) as a civil
debt due to the Authority.

 (5) The Authority may waive the payment of all or any part of the
remuneration and expenses referred to in subsection (3).

 (6) Where, in the course of an inspection under subsection (1), the
Authority obtains any protected information as defined in
section 17(1), and that information is not necessary for taking any
action regarding —

       (a) non-compliance with any direction issued under, or
            regulations mentioned in, section 15 or 16;

      (aa) non-compliance with any provision in Part 4A;

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2023 wef 01/04/2024]

       (b) non-compliance with any direction issued under, or
            regulations mentioned in, section 29; or

       (c) non-compliance with any provision in Part 9,

then the Authority must treat that information as secret.

 (7) Subsection (6) does not prevent the transmission under
section 20, 22, 25 or 172 by the Authority of any information to
any authority referred to in the applicable section.

Obligation of relevant person under inspection, etc.

 170.—(1) For the purposes of an inspection under section 169(1), a
relevant person must —

       (a) give the Authority access to such of the books of the
            relevant person as the Authority may reasonably require to
            conduct the inspection;

       (b) procure any other person who is in possession of such of
            the books of the relevant person as the Authority may
            reasonably require to conduct the inspection, to give the
            Authority access to the books;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
284  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (c) provide such information (including information relating
            to the internal control systems of the relevant person) and
            facilities as the Authority may reasonably require to
            conduct the inspection; and

       (d) procure any other person who is in possession of such
            information (including information relating to the internal
            control systems of the relevant person) and facilities as the
            Authority may reasonably require to conduct the
            inspection, to provide the information and facilities to
            the Authority.

 (2) Subsection (1) has effect despite any obligation of
confidentiality or other restrictions on the disclosure of information
imposed on the relevant person or any of its officers, or on any person
referred to in subsection (1)(b) or (d), by any prescribed written law
as defined in section 17(1) or any requirement imposed under any
such written law, any rule of law, any contract or any rule of
professional conduct.

 (3) A relevant person that, without reasonable excuse, refuses or
neglects to comply with subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000
and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (4) No civil or criminal liability is incurred by a relevant person or
any of its officers, or by any person referred to in subsection (1)(b) or
(d), in respect of any obligation or restriction referred to in
subsection (2), for doing or omitting to do any act, if the act is
done or omitted to be done with reasonable care and in good faith and
for the purpose of complying with subsection (1).

 (5) A relevant person, or any of its officers, or any person referred
to in subsection (1)(b) or (d), that, with reasonable care and in good
faith, does or omits to do any act for the purpose of complying with
subsection (1) is not to be treated as being in breach of any obligation
or restriction referred to in subsection (2).

 (6) For the purposes of an inspection under section 169(1), the
Authority may —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            285

       (a) make copies of, or take possession of, any such books;

       (b) use, or permit the use of, any such books for the purposes
            of any proceedings under this Act; and

       (c) subject to subsection (8), retain possession of any such
            books for so long as is necessary —

               (i) for the purposes of exercising a power conferred by
                   this section;

              (ii) for a decision to be made on whether or not
                   proceedings should be commenced under this Act
                   in relation to such books; or

             (iii) for such proceedings to be commenced and carried
                   on.

 (7) A person is not entitled, as against the Authority, to claim a lien
on any of the books, but such a lien is not otherwise prejudiced.

 (8) While the books are in the possession of the Authority, the
Authority —

       (a) must permit another person to inspect at all reasonable
            times such (if any) of the books as the other person would
            be entitled to inspect if they were not in the possession of
            the Authority; and

       (b) may permit another person to inspect any of the books.

 (9) The Authority may require a person that produced any book to
the Authority to explain, to the best of the person’s knowledge and
belief, any matter about the compilation of the book or to which the
book relates.

 (10) A person that, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
a requirement of the Authority under subsection (9) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $50,000
            or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
            both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
            fine not exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of a day
            during which the offence continues after conviction; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
286  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

Confidentiality of inspection reports

 171.—(1) Except as provided in subsection (2), where a written
report has been produced in respect of a relevant person by the
Authority following an inspection under section 169(1), the report
must not be disclosed to any other person by —

       (a) the relevant person; or

       (b) any officer or auditor of the relevant person.

 (2) Disclosure of the report may be made —

       (a) by the relevant person to any officer or auditor of that
            relevant person solely in connection with the performance
            of the duties of the officer or auditor (as the case may be) in
            that relevant person;

       (b) by any officer or auditor of the relevant person to any other
            officer or auditor of that relevant person, solely in
            connection with the performance of their respective
            duties in that relevant person; or

       (c) to such other person as the Authority may approve in
            writing.

 (3) In granting approval for any disclosure under subsection (2)(c),
the Authority may impose such conditions or restrictions as the
Authority thinks fit on the relevant person, any officer or auditor of
that relevant person or the person to whom disclosure is approved,
and that relevant person, officer, auditor or person (as the case may
be) must comply with those conditions or restrictions.

 (4) The obligations of an officer or auditor under subsections (1)
and (3) continue after the termination or cessation of the employment
or appointment of the officer or auditor by the relevant person.

 (5) A person who contravenes subsection (1), or fails to comply
with any condition or restriction imposed by the Authority under

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            287

subsection (3), shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

       (a) in any case where the person is an individual, to a fine not
            exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 3 years or to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000.

 (6) Any person to whom the report is disclosed and who knows or
has reasonable grounds for believing, at the time of the disclosure,
that the report was disclosed to the person in contravention of
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

       (a) in any case where the person is an individual, to a fine not
            exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 3 years or to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000.

 (7) Where a person is charged with an offence under subsection (6),
it is a defence for the person to prove that —

       (a) the disclosure was made contrary to the person’s desire;

       (b) where the disclosure was made in any written or printed
            form — the person had as soon as practicable after
            receiving the report surrendered, or taken all reasonable
            steps to surrender, the report and all copies of the report to
            the Authority; and

       (c) where the disclosure was made in an electronic form — the
            person had, as soon as practicable after receiving the
            report, taken all reasonable steps to ensure the deletion of
            all electronic copies of the report and the surrender of the
            report and all copies of the report in other forms to the
            Authority.

Authority may transmit information from inspection to
corresponding authority

 172.—(1) The Authority or any person authorised by the Authority
may, on the Authority’s own motion, and subject to the satisfaction of

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
288  NO. 18 OF 2022

such conditions as the Authority may determine, transmit any
information obtained by the Authority from an inspection under
section 169(1) to a corresponding authority as defined in
section 17(1) of a foreign country that exercises consolidated
supervision authority (whether or not for compliance with any
AML/CFT requirement as defined in section 17(1)) over the relevant
person to which the inspection relates.

 (2) Subsection (1) applies despite the provisions of any prescribed
written law as defined in section 17(1) or any requirement imposed
under any such written law, any rule of law, any contract or any rule of
professional conduct, and does not affect section 25 or any other
written law or rule of law authorising the Authority, or a person
authorised by the Authority, to disclose information in the Authority’s
or the person’s possession to another person.

Self-incrimination

 173.—(1) A person is not excused from disclosing information to
the Authority pursuant to a requirement made of the person under this
Part on the grounds that the disclosure of the information might tend
to incriminate the person.

 (2) Where a person claims, before making a statement disclosing
information that the person is required to disclose by such
requirement, that the statement might tend to incriminate the
person, that statement is not admissible in evidence against the
person in criminal proceedings other than proceedings for an offence
under section 176(4).

          PART 10A
     INVESTIGATIONS

                                          [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            289

                         Division 1 — Preliminary

Interpretation of this Part

 173A. In this Part —

      “advocate and solicitor” means an advocate and solicitor of the
         Supreme Court or a foreign lawyer as defined in section 2(1)
         of the Legal Profession Act 1966;

      “auditor” means a public accountant who is registered or
         deemed to be registered under the Accountants Act 2004;

      “book” includes any record, register, document or other record
         of information, and any account or accounting record,
         however compiled, recorded or stored, whether in written
         or printed form or on microfilm or in any other electronic
         form or otherwise;

      “computer” and “data” have the meanings given by section 2(1)
         of the Computer Misuse Act 1993;

      “law enforcement agency” means any authority or person
         charged with the duty of investigating offences or charging
         offenders under any written law;

      “legal counsel” has the meaning given by section 3(7) of the
         Evidence Act 1893;

      “officer” —

              (a) in relation to the Authority, includes any person
                   employed by the Authority in an executive capacity;
                   and

              (b) in relation to any corporation (other than a law
                   enforcement agency), has the meaning given by
                   section 4(1) of the Companies Act 1967;

      “prescribed written law” means this Act or any of the following
         Acts, and any subsidiary legislation made under this Act or
         those Acts:

              (a) Banking Act 1970;

              (b) Credit Bureau Act 2016;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
290  NO. 18 OF 2022

              (c) Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners’ Protection
                   Schemes Act 2011;

              (d) Finance Companies Act 1967;
              (e) Financial Advisers Act 2001;

              (f) Financial Holding Companies Act 2013;
              (g) Insurance Act 1966;

              (h) Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970;
              (i) Payment Services Act 2019;

              (j) Securities and Futures Act 2001;
              (k) Trust Companies Act 2005;
              (l) such other Act as the Authority may prescribe by

                   regulations made under section 192.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

            Division 2 — Investigative powers of Authority

                         Subdivision (1) — General
Investigation by Authority

 173B.—(1) The Authority may conduct such investigation as it
considers necessary or expedient for any of the following purposes:

       (a) to perform any of its functions and duties under this Act;
       (b) to ensure compliance with this Act or any written direction

            issued under this Act;
       (c) to investigate an alleged or suspected contravention of any

            provision of this Act or any written direction issued under
            this Act.

 (2) The Authority may exercise any of its powers under this
Division for the purposes of conducting an investigation under
subsection (1) despite the provisions of any prescribed written law or
any requirement imposed thereunder or any rule of law.

 (3) Subject to subsection (5), a requirement imposed by the
Authority under this Division has effect despite any obligations as

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            291

to secrecy or other restrictions upon the disclosure of information
imposed by any prescribed written law or any requirement imposed
thereunder, any rule of law, any contract or any rule of professional
conduct.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), any person who complies with a
requirement imposed by the Authority under this Division is not
treated as being in breach of any restriction upon the disclosure of
information or thing imposed by any prescribed written law or any
requirement imposed thereunder, any rule of law, any contract or any
rule of professional conduct.

 (5) Nothing in this section requires a person to disclose any
information subject to legal privilege.

 (6) No civil or criminal action, other than proceedings for an
offence under section 173R, shall lie against any person —

       (a) for giving assistance to the Authority, including answering
            questions, if the person had given the assistance or
            answered the questions in good faith in compliance with
            a requirement imposed by the Authority under this
            Division;

       (b) for providing information, producing books or giving
            access to data to the Authority, if the person had done so in
            good faith in compliance with a requirement imposed by
            the Authority under this Division; or

       (c) for doing or omitting to do any act, if the person had done
            or omitted to do the act in good faith and as a result of
            complying with a requirement imposed by the Authority
            under this Division.

 (7) In this section, a reference to a requirement imposed by the
Authority under this Division includes a reference to a requirement
imposed by an investigator or authorised person under Subdivision
(2) or (3).

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
292  NO. 18 OF 2022

Confidentiality of investigation reports

 173C.—(1) Where a written report or any part of a written report
(called in this section the report) has been produced by the Authority
in respect of any investigation under section 173B and is provided by
the Authority to the person under investigation (called in this section
the investigated person), the report must not be disclosed by the
investigated person or, if the investigated person is a corporation, by
any of its officers or auditors, to any other person except in the
circumstances provided under subsection (2).

 (2) Disclosure of the report mentioned in subsection (1) may be
made —

       (a) by the investigated person to any officer or auditor of that
            investigated person solely in connection with the
            performance of the duties of the officer or auditor (as the
            case may be) in that investigated person;

       (b) by any officer or auditor of the investigated person to any
            other officer or auditor of that investigated person, solely
            in connection with the performance of their duties in that
            investigated person; or

       (c) to such other person as the Authority may approve in
            writing.

 (3) In granting written approval for any disclosure under
subsection (2)(c), the Authority may impose such conditions or
restrictions as it thinks fit on the investigated person, any of its
officers or auditors or the person to whom disclosure is approved, and
that person must comply with such conditions or restrictions.

 (4) The obligation on an officer or auditor mentioned in
subsection (1) continues after the termination or cessation of his or
her employment or appointment by the investigated person.

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (3) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2
years or to both.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            293

 (6) Any person to whom the report is disclosed and who knows or
has reasonable grounds for believing, at the time of the disclosure,
that the report was disclosed to the person in contravention of
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both, unless the person proves that —

       (a) the disclosure was made contrary to the person’s desire;

       (b) where the disclosure was made in any written or printed
            form, the person had, as soon as practicable after receiving
            the report, surrendered or taken all reasonable steps to
            surrender the report and all copies of the report to the
            Authority; and

       (c) where the disclosure was made in an electronic form, the
            person had, as soon as practicable after receiving the
            report, taken all reasonable steps to ensure that all
            electronic copies of the report had been deleted and that
            the report and all copies of the report in other forms had
            been surrendered to the Authority.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Self-incrimination and saving for advocates and solicitors

 173D.—(1) A person is not excused from disclosing information to
the Authority, or an investigator or authorised person mentioned in
Subdivision (2) or (3), pursuant to a requirement made of the person
under any provision of this Division, on the ground that the disclosure
of the information might tend to incriminate the person.

 (2) Where a person claims, before making a statement disclosing
information that the person is required to disclose under any
provision of this Division to the Authority or to an investigator or
authorised person mentioned in Subdivision (2) or (3), that the
statement might tend to incriminate the person, that statement is not
admissible in evidence against the person in criminal proceedings
other than proceedings for an offence under section 173R(4).

 (3) For the purposes of any proceedings for an offence under this
Act, the making of a statement by an accused person made pursuant to
a requirement mentioned in subsection (1), is not to be regarded under

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
294  NO. 18 OF 2022

section 258(3) of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 as caused by any
inducement, threat or promise merely because the Authority,
investigator or authorised person had earlier informed the accused
person that the accused person was not excused from disclosing
information on the ground that the disclosure of the information
might tend to incriminate the accused person, if the Authority,
investigator or authorised person (as the case may be) believed in
good faith, when so informing the accused person, that —

       (a) the accused person was concerned in an offence under this
            Act; or

       (b) a reasonable complaint has been made, or credible
            information has been received, or a reasonable suspicion
            exists, that the accused person was concerned in an offence
            under this Act.

 (4) Nothing in this Division —

       (a) compels an advocate and solicitor or legal counsel to
            disclose or produce a privileged communication, or a book
            or other material containing a privileged communication,
            made by or to the advocate and solicitor or legal counsel in
            that capacity; or

       (b) authorises the taking of any such book or other material
            which is in the possession of an advocate and solicitor or
            legal counsel.

 (5) Despite subsection (4), an advocate and solicitor or legal
counsel —

       (a) who is required under this Division to disclose or produce a
            privileged communication, or a book or other material
            containing a privileged communication, made by or to the
            advocate and solicitor or legal counsel in that capacity; and

       (b) who refuses to disclose or produce the privileged
            communication, book or other material,

must give the name and address (if he or she knows them) of the
person to whom, or by or on behalf of whom, that privileged
communication was made.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            295

               Subdivision (2) — Examination of persons

Requirement to appear for examination

 173E.—(1) For the purpose of an investigation under this Division,
the Authority may, in writing, require a person —

       (a) to give to the Authority all reasonable assistance in
            connection with the investigation; and

       (b) to appear before an officer of the Authority duly authorised
            by the Authority for examination and to answer questions.

 (2) A written requirement imposed under subsection (1) must state
the general nature of the matter mentioned in that subsection.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Proceedings at examination

 173F. The provisions of this Subdivision apply where, pursuant to a
requirement made under section 173E for the purposes of an
investigation under this Division, a person (called in this
Subdivision the examinee) appears before another person (called in
this Subdivision the investigator) for examination.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Requirements made of examinee

 173G.—(1) The investigator may examine the examinee on oath or
affirmation, and may, for that purpose, administer an oath or
affirmation to the examinee.

 (2) The oath or affirmation to be taken or made by the examinee for
the purposes of the examination is an oath or affirmation that the
statements that the examinee will make are true.

 (3) The investigator may require the examinee to answer a question
that is put to the examinee at the examination and is relevant to a
matter that the Authority is investigating, or is to investigate, under
this Division.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
296  NO. 18 OF 2022

Examination to take place in private

 173H.—(1) The examination must take place in private and the
investigator may give directions as to who may be present during the
examination or part thereof.

 (2) A person must not be present at the examination unless the
person is —

       (a) the investigator or the examinee;

       (b) a person approved by the Authority; or

       (c) entitled to be present by virtue of a direction under
            subsection (1).

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Record of examination

 173I.—(1) The investigator may, and must if the examinee so
requests, cause a record to be made of statements made at the
examination.

 (2) If a record made under subsection (1) is in writing or is reduced
to writing —

       (a) the investigator may require the examinee to read the
            record, or to have it read to the examinee, and may require
            the examinee to sign it; and

       (b) the investigator must, if requested in writing by the
            examinee to give to the examinee a copy of the written
            record, provide a copy of the written record without charge
            within a reasonable time, subject to such conditions as the
            investigator may impose.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Giving copies of record to other persons

 173J.—(1) The Authority may, subject to such conditions or
restrictions as it may impose, give a copy of a written record of the
examintion, or such a copy together with a copy of any related book,
to an advocate and solicitor acting on behalf of a person who is
carrying on, or is contemplating in good faith, a legal proceeding in
respect of a matter to which the examination relates.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            297

 (2) If the Authority gives a copy of a written record or book to a
person under subsection (1), the person, or any other person who has
possession, custody or control of the copy or a further copy of the
copy, must not, except in connection with preparing, beginning or
carrying on, or in the course of, any legal proceeding —

       (a) use the copy or a further copy of the copy; or

       (b) publish, or communicate to a person, the copy, a further
            copy of the copy, or any part of the contents of the copy.

 (3) The Authority may, subject to such conditions or restrictions as
it may impose, give to a person other than a person mentioned in
subsection (1), a copy of a written record of the examination, or the
copy together with a copy of any related book.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Copies given subject to conditions

 173K. If a copy of any written record or book is given to a person
under section 173I(2) or 173J(1) or (3) subject to conditions or
restrictions imposed by the investigator or the Authority (as the case
may be), the person, and any other person who has possession,
custody or control of the copy or the further copy of the copy, must
comply with the conditions or restrictions.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

           Subdivision (3) — Powers to obtain information

Power of Authority to order production of books, provision of
information or giving of access to data

 173L. For the purpose of an investigation under this Division, the
Authority may, in writing, require —

       (a) a person who is believed to possess, or to have power to
            access, any book, or who is believed to possess any
            information, relating to any matter under investigation; or

       (b) a person who is believed to have power to access any data
            relating to any matter under investigation,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
298  NO. 18 OF 2022

to —

       (c) produce the book or a copy of the book, or to provide the
            information, at the time and place specified in the written
            requirement;

       (d) give the Authority or any officer of the Authority who is
            authorised by the Authority for this purpose (called in this
            section an investigator) access to the book or data; or

       (e) provide such reasonable assistance as the Authority or an
            investigator may require for the purposes of accessing the
            book or data.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Power to enter premises without warrant

 173M.—(1) In connection with an investigation under this
Division, any officer of the Authority who is authorised by the
Authority to do so (called in this section an investigator) and such
other officers or persons as the Authority has authorised in writing to
accompany the investigator (each called in this section an authorised
person) may enter any premises.

 (2) An investigator or authorised person accompanying the
investigator must not enter any premises in the exercise of the
powers under this section unless the investigator has given the
occupier of the premises a written notice which —

       (a) gives at least 2 working days’ notice of the intended entry;

       (b) indicates the subject matter and purpose of the
            investigation; and

       (c) indicates the nature of the offences investigated.

 (3) Subsection (2) does not apply —

       (a) if the investigation relates to an alleged or suspected
            contravention of any provision of this Act and the
            investigator has reasonable grounds for suspecting that
            the premises are, or have been, occupied by a person who is
            being investigated in relation to the contravention; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            299

       (b) if the investigator has taken all such steps as are reasonably
            practicable to give notice under subsection (2)(a) but has
            not been able to do so.

 (4) Where subsection (3) applies, the power of entry conferred by
subsection (1) may only be exercised upon production of —

       (a) evidence of the investigator’s authorisation and the
            authorisation of every authorised person accompanying
            the investigator; and

       (b) a document containing information indicating the subject
            matter and purpose of the investigation and the nature of
            the offences investigated.

 (5) Without affecting section 173L, an investigator or authorised
person entering any premises under this section may —

       (a) bring with him or her to the premises such items as appear
            to him or her to be necessary;

       (b) require any person on the premises to produce any book or
            copy of any book or to give access to any data which the
            investigator or authorised person considers relates to any
            matter relevant to the investigation;

       (c) require any person on the premises to state, to the best of
            the person’s knowledge and belief, where any such book or
            data is to be found; and

       (d) take any step, or issue to any person on the premises any
            requirement, which appears to be necessary for the purpose
            of preserving or preventing interference with any such
            book or data.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Warrant to seize books, etc.

 173N.—(1) A Magistrate may, on the application of the
Authority —

       (a) issue a warrant, if the Magistrate is satisfied that there are
            reasonable grounds to suspect that there is, on any
            particular premises, any book, or a computer in which
            any data is contained or to which any data is available —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
300  NO. 18 OF 2022

               (i) being any book or data the production of which, or
                   access to which, has been required under
                   section 173L or 173M, but which has not been
                   produced, or access to which has not been given, in
                   compliance with that requirement; or

              (ii) being any book or data which, if production of which
                   or access to which is required under section 173L or
                   173M, will be concealed, removed, tampered with or
                   destroyed; and

       (b) if the Magistrate is also satisfied that there are reasonable
            grounds to suspect that there is, on those premises, any
            other book, or a computer in which any other data is
            contained or to which any other data is available, which
            relates to any matter relevant to the investigation
            concerned, direct that the powers exercisable under the
            warrant extend to such other book or computer.

 (2) A warrant issued under subsection (1) authorises the Authority
or any person named in the warrant, with or without assistance —

       (a) to enter the premises specified in the warrant, using such
            force as is reasonably necessary for the purpose;

       (b) to search the premises and to break open and search
            anything, whether a fixture or not, in the premises;

       (c) to take possession of, or secure against interference, any
            book or computer that appears to be a book or computer
            mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b);

       (d) to require any person to provide an explanation of any
            book or data that appears to be any book or data mentioned
            in subsection (1)(a) or (b), or to state, to the best of that
            person’s knowledge and belief, where any such book or
            data may be found;

       (e) to search any person on those premises, if there are
            reasonable grounds to suspect that the person has in his or
            her possession any book or computer that appears to be a
            book or computer mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b), or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            301

     any equipment or article which relates to any matter
     relevant to the investigation concerned;

(f) to remove from those premises for examination any book
     that appears to be a book mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or
     (b), or any equipment (including a computer) or article
     which relates to any matter relevant to the investigation
     concerned;

(g) to access, inspect and check the operation of a computer on
     the premises specified in the warrant, if there are
     reasonable grounds to suspect that any data mentioned in
     subsection (1)(a) or (b) is or has been contained in or
     available to the computer, or that the computer is a
     computer mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b);

(h) to use any computer mentioned in paragraph (g), or cause
     any such computer to be used —

       (i) to search any book or data that appears to be a book
            or any data mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b), that
            is contained in or available to such computer; and

      (ii) to make a copy of any such book or data;

(i) to prevent any other person from gaining access to, or
     using, any computer mentioned in paragraph (g) (including
     by changing any username, password or other
     authentication information required to gain access to the
     computer);

(j) to order any person —

       (i) to stop accessing or using or to not access or use any
            computer mentioned in paragraph (g); or

      (ii) to access or use any such computer only under such
            conditions as the Authority or any person named in
            the warrant may specify; and

(k) to order —

       (i) any person whom the Authority or any person named
            in the warrant reasonably suspects of using, or of
            having used, a computer mentioned in paragraph (g);

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
302  NO. 18 OF 2022

              (ii) any person having charge of, or otherwise concerned
                   with the operation of, any such computer; or

             (iii) any person whom the Authority or any person named
                   in the warrant reasonably believes has knowledge of
                   or access to any username, password or other
                   authentication information required to gain access
                   to any such computer,

       (k) to provide any of the following types of assistance to the
            Authority:

             (iv) assistance to gain access to the computer (including
                   assistance through the provision of any username,
                   password or other authentication information
                   required to gain access to the computer);

              (v) assistance to prevent a person (other than the
                   Authority or any person named in the warrant)
                   from gaining access to, or using, the computer,
                   including assistance in changing any username,
                   password or other authentication information
                   required to gain access to the computer.

 (3) The Authority or any person named in the warrant may allow
any equipment or article mentioned in subsection (2)(f) to be retained
on the premises specified in the warrant, subject to such conditions as
the Authority or that person may require.

 (4) Any person entering any premises by virtue of a warrant issued
under subsection (1) may bring with him or her to the premises such
items as appear to him or her to be necessary.

 (5) Where a warrant is issued under subsection (1), and there is no
one present at the premises specified in the warrant when the
Authority or any person named in the warrant proposes to execute the
warrant, the Authority or that person must, before executing the
warrant —

       (a) take such steps as are reasonable in all the circumstances to
            inform the occupier of the premises of the intended entry
            into the premises; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            303

       (b) subject to subsection (6), give the occupier or the
            occupier’s legal or other representative a reasonable
            opportunity to be present when the warrant is executed.

 (6) If the Authority or any person named in the warrant is unable to
inform the occupier of the premises of the intended entry into the
premises, the Authority or that person must, when executing the
warrant, leave a copy of the warrant in a prominent place on the
premises.

 (7) On leaving any premises specified in a warrant issued under
subsection (1), the Authority or any person named in the warrant
must, if the premises are unoccupied or if the occupier of the premises
is temporarily absent, leave the premises as effectively secured as the
Authority or that person found the premises.

 (8) The powers conferred by this section are in addition to, and not
in derogation of, any other powers conferred by any other written law
or rule of law.

 (9) In this section —

      “occupier”, in relation to any premises specified in a warrant
         issued under subsection (1), includes any person whom the
         Authority or any person named in the warrant reasonably
         believes to be the occupier of those premises;

      “premises” includes any structure, building, aircraft, vehicle or
         vessel.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Powers where books are produced, etc.

 173O.—(1) This section applies where —

       (a) any book is produced to the Authority, or access to any
            book, or any data contained in or available to a computer, is
            given to the Authority —

               (i) pursuant to a requirement under section 173L; or

              (ii) during an entry into any premises by an investigator
                   or authorised person under section 173M;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
304  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (b) under a warrant issued under section 173N(1), the
            Authority or a person named therein —

               (i) takes possession of any book or computer; or

              (ii) secures any book or computer against interference;
                   or

       (c) under a previous application of subsection (6), any book or
            computer is delivered into the possession of the Authority
            or a person authorised by it.

 (2) If subsection (1)(a) applies, the Authority may take possession
of any book or computer mentioned in that provision.

 (3) The Authority or, where applicable, a person mentioned in
subsection (1)(b) or (c) may —

       (a) inspect, and make copies of, or take extracts from, a book,
            or any data contained in or available to the computer,
            mentioned in that subsection;

       (b) use, or permit the use of, a book, or any data contained in or
            available to the computer, mentioned in that subsection for
            the purposes of any proceedings;

       (c) retain possession of a book or computer mentioned in that
            subsection for so long as is necessary —

               (i) for the purposes of exercising a power conferred by
                   this section;

              (ii) for a decision to be made about whether or not any
                   proceedings to which the book or any data contained
                   in or available to the computer would be relevant
                   should be instituted; or

             (iii) for such proceedings to be instituted and carried on;
                   and

       (d) require any book stored in any electronic form, or any data,
            which the Authority or person mentioned in
            subsection (1)(b) or (c) is satisfied relates to any matter
            relevant to an investigation under this Division, to be

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            305

            produced in a form which can be taken away and which is
            visible and legible.

 (4) No person is entitled, as against the Authority or, where
applicable, a person mentioned in subsection (1)(b) or (c) to claim a
lien on any book or computer mentioned in that subsection, but such a
lien is not otherwise prejudiced.

 (5) While any book or computer is in the possession of the
Authority or (where applicable) the person mentioned in
subsection (1)(b) or (c), the Authority or the person —

       (a) must permit another person to inspect at all reasonable
            times the book or computer as the second-mentioned
            person would be entitled to inspect if the book or computer
            were not in the possession of the Authority or the
            firstmentioned person; and

       (b) may permit any other person to inspect the book or
            computer.

 (6) If subsection (1)(a) or (b)(i) applies, an investigator or
authorised person mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or a person
mentioned in subsection (1)(b) may deliver any book or computer
into the possession of the Authority or of a person authorised by the
Authority to receive them.

 (7) If subsection (1)(a) or (b) or (6) applies, the Authority, an
investigator or authorised person mentioned in subsection (1)(a), a
person mentioned in subsection (1)(b) or a person into whose
possession any book or computer is delivered under subsection (6),
may require —

       (a) if subsection (1)(a) applies — a person who produced the
            book or gave access to the book or the data contained in or
            available to the computer; or

       (b) if subsection (1)(b) applies — a person who was a party to
            the preparation of the book or any data contained in or
            available to the computer,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
306  NO. 18 OF 2022

to explain, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, any matter
about the preparation of the book or data or any matter to which the
book or data relates.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Powers where books not produced, information not provided
or access to book or data not given

 173P. Where a person fails to comply with a requirement imposed
by the Authority under section 173L to produce any book, provide
any information or give access to any book or data, the Authority may
require the person to state, to the best of his or her knowledge and
belief —

       (a) the place where such book, or any computer in which such
            data is contained or to which such data is available, may be
            found;

       (b) the person who last had possession, custody or control of
            such book, or any computer in which such data is contained
            or to which such data is available, and the place where that
            person may be found; or

       (c) the person who possesses such information and the place
            where that person may be found.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Copies of or extracts from books to be admitted in evidence

 173Q.—(1) Subject to this section, a copy of or extract from any
book referred to in this Division that is proved to be a true copy of the
book, or of the relevant part of the book, is admissible in evidence as
if it were the original book, or the relevant part of the original book.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), evidence that a copy of or
extract from any book is a true copy of the book or of a part of the
book, may be given by a person who has compared the copy or extract
with the book or the relevant part of the book, and may be given orally
or by an affidavit sworn, or by a declaration made, before a person
authorised to take affidavits or statutory declarations.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            307

Offences under this Division

 173R.—(1) An advocate and solicitor or legal counsel who,
without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with section 173D(5)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000.

 (2) A person who, without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to
comply with —

       (a) any requirement imposed under section 173E(1), 173G(3),
            173L, 173M(5)(b), (c) or (d), 173O(3)(d) or (7) or 173P; or

       (b) any requirement imposed pursuant to a warrant issued
            under section 173N(1),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2
years or to both.

 (3) A person who, without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to
comply with —

       (a) any requirement of an investigator under
            section 173I(2)(a); or

       (b) section 173J(2) or 173K,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or to both.

 (4) A person who —

       (a) in purported compliance with a requirement imposed under
            section 173D(5), 173L, 173M(5)(b), (c) or (d), 173O(3)(d)
            or (7) or 173P, or pursuant to a warrant issued under
            section 173N(1); or

       (b) in the course of examination of the person,

provides information or makes a statement that is false or misleading
in a material particular shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
308  NO. 18 OF 2022

 (5) It is a defence to a prosecution for an offence under
subsection (4) if the defendant proves that the defendant believed
on reasonable grounds that the information or statement was true and
not misleading.

 (6) Any person who, knowing or having reasonable grounds to
believe that any book, computer, equipment or article relates to a
matter that the Authority is investigating or about to investigate under
this Division —

       (a) conceals, destroys, mutilates or alters that book, computer,
            equipment or article; or

       (b) if any such book, computer, equipment or article is within
            the territory of Singapore, takes or sends the book,
            computer, equipment or article out of Singapore,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (7) A person who, without reasonable excuse, obstructs or hinders
the Authority in the exercise of any power under this Division, or
obstructs or hinders a person who is exercising any power under
section 173M(1) or (5) or executing a warrant issued under
section 173N(1), shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (8) Any occupier or person in charge of any premises who fails to
provide, to any person who enters those premises under
section 173M(1) or under a warrant issued under section 173N(1),
all reasonable facilities and assistance for the effective exercise of
that person’s powers under section 173M(1) or (5) or under the
warrant (as the case may be) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            309

                    Division 3 — Transfer of evidence

Interpretation of this Division

 173S. In this Division ––

      “Commercial Affairs Officer” means a Commercial Affairs
         Officer appointed under section 64 of the Police Force Act
         2004;

      “police officer” means a member of the Singapore Police Force.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Evidence obtained by Authority may be used in criminal
investigations and proceedings

 173T.—(1) Despite the provisions of any written law or rule of law,
the Authority may provide any book, written record of any
examination or other information, or access to any data, obtained
by the Authority under this Part to ––

       (a) a police officer;

       (b) a Commercial Affairs Officer; or

       (c) the Public Prosecutor,

for the purposes of any investigation into or criminal proceedings
against a person for an alleged or suspected contravention of any
provision under this Act.

 (2) To avoid doubt, any book, written record of examination or
other information provided, or any data to which access is provided,
by the Authority under subsection (1) is not inadmissible in any
criminal proceedings by reason only that it was first obtained by the
Authority under this Act, and the admissibility thereof is to be
determined in accordance with the rules of evidence under written
law and any relevant rules of law.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

Evidence obtained under Criminal Procedure Code 2010 may
be used for purposes of Act

 173U. Despite the provisions of any written law or any rule of law,
any book, data, statement or other information obtained by —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
310  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (a) a police officer or a Commercial Affairs Officer in the
            exercise of his or her powers under Divisions 1 and 2 of
            Part 4 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010; or

       (b) an authorised person mentioned in section 20(1) or (1A),
            39(1) or 40(2) of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, in the
            exercise of his or her powers under those sections,

may be provided to the following persons for the following purposes,
if it is in the public interest to do so:

       (c) to the Authority — for the purpose of any investigation
            under section 173B(1);

       (d) to the Minister or to an Appeal Advisory Committee
            constituted under section 13 — for the purpose of any
            appeal against a decision of the Authority under this Act.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

                                    PART 11

                                  OFFENCES

Offences by corporations

 174.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

              (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   corporation and in a position to influence the conduct

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            311

                   of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                   the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the corporation; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                   type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                   take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                   commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
         meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
         Act 2005;

      “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
         partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the corporation, and includes —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
312  NO. 18 OF 2022

              (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

              (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
                   members, any of those members as if the member
                   were a director of the corporation;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

 (7) The Authority may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with such modifications as the
Authority considers appropriate, to any corporation formed or
recognised under the law of a territory outside Singapore.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 175.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                   position to influence the conduct of the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            313

                   unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                   case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                   offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the unincorporated
                   association or partnership; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the unincorporated association or
                   partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                   be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                   reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                   that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
314  NO. 18 OF 2022

 (6) In this section —

      “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
         a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
         member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
         and includes —

              (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
                   president, secretary or member of a committee of the
                   unincorporated association; and

              (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

      “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

 (7) The Authority may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with such modifications as the
Authority considers appropriate, to any unincorporated association
or partnership formed or recognised under the law of a territory
outside Singapore.

General duty to use reasonable care not to provide false
information to Authority

 176.—(1) A person who provides the Authority with any
information —

       (a) under or for the purposes of any provision of this Act; or

       (b) in circumstances in which the person providing the
            information intends, or could reasonably be expected to
            know, that the information would be used by the Authority
            for the purpose of the Authority discharging its functions
            under this Act,

must use reasonable care to ensure that the information is not false or
misleading in any material particular.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            315

 (2) Subsection (1) applies only where no other provision of this Act
creates an offence in connection with the provision of information
that is false or misleading in a material particular.

 (3) A person who —

       (a) signs any document lodged with the Authority; or

       (b) lodges with the Authority any document by electronic
            means using any identification or identifying code,
            password or other authentication method or procedure
            assigned to the person by the Authority,

must use reasonable care to ensure that the document is not false or
misleading in any material particular.

 (4) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (3) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $50,000
            or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
            both; and

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

Composition of offences

 177.—(1) The Authority may compound any offence under this Act
that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
of money not exceeding one half of the amount of the maximum fine
prescribed for that offence.

 (2) The Authority may compound any offence under this Act
(including an offence under a provision that has been repealed)
which —

       (a) was compoundable under this section at the time the
            offence was committed; but

       (b) has ceased to be so compoundable,

by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum of money not exceeding one half of

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
316  NO. 18 OF 2022

the amount of the maximum fine prescribed for that offence at the
time it was committed.

 (3) On payment of the sum of money referred to in subsection (1) or
(2), no further proceedings are to be taken against that person in
respect of the offence.

 (4) Regulations made under section 192 may prescribe the offences
which may be compounded.

 (5) All sums collected by the Authority under subsection (1) or (2)
must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                   PART 12

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Agents

 178. In the exercise of its powers and the performance of its
functions under this Act, the Authority may —

       (a) establish agencies at such places outside Singapore as the
            Authority thinks fit;

       (b) arrange with and authorise a person to act as agent of the
            Authority outside Singapore;

       (c) act as agent of a bank carrying on business inside or outside
            Singapore; and

       (d) act as agent of any public authority or any company in
            which the Government or a public authority has a
            substantial interest or any company which is deemed to
            be related to that company by virtue of section 6 of the
            Companies Act 1967 either generally or for a particular
            purpose inside or outside Singapore.

Appointment of assistants

 179.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the Authority may appoint any
person to exercise any of the Authority’s powers or perform any of
the Authority’s functions or duties under this Act, either generally or
in any particular case, except —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            317

       (a) the power of appointment conferred by this subsection; and

       (b) the power to make subsidiary legislation.

 (2) The Authority may appoint one or more of its officers to
exercise the power under section 189(5) to grant an exemption to a
particular person, or under section 189(6) to revoke any such
exemption, or both.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (2A) An appointment under subsection (2) must be published in the
Gazette.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (3) Any person appointed under subsection (1) or officer appointed
under subsection (2) is taken to be a public servant for the purposes of
the Penal Code 1871.

Consent of Public Prosecutor

 180. No prosecution in respect of any offence under this Act may be
instituted without the written consent of the Public Prosecutor.

Jurisdiction of Courts

 181. Despite the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, a District Court or
a Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act
and has power to impose the full punishment for that offence.

Opportunity to be heard

 182. Where this Act provides for a person to be given an
opportunity to be heard by the Authority, the Authority may
prescribe the manner in which the person is to be given such
opportunity to be heard.

Recovery of fees, expenses, etc.

 183. The Authority may recover as a civil debt due to the Authority
from the financial institution concerned —

       (a) the amount of any fees payable to the Authority under
            section 5;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
318  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (b) the amount of any fees payable to the Authority under
            section 138;

       (c) the amount of any fees payable to the Authority under
            section 140; and

       (d) any remuneration and expenses payable by the financial
            institution concerned to —

               (i) a statutory adviser appointed under section 41(2);

              (ii) a statutory manager appointed under section 41(2);

             (iii) the Authority or any person appointed by the
                   Authority under section 179 in relation to the
                   Authority’s assumption of control of any business
                   of the financial institution under section 41; and

             (iv) any person appointed to perform any independent
                   assessment under Part 7 or 8.

Publication of certain information

 184.—(1) The Authority may prepare and publish —

       (a) consolidated statements aggregating any information
            provided under this Act; or

       (b) for statistical purposes, statements that relate to or are
            derived from any information provided under this Act in
            respect of a digital token service.

 (2) The Authority may, in such form or manner as the Authority
considers appropriate, publish such information as the Authority may
consider necessary or expedient to publish in the public interest,
including information relating to all or any of the following:

       (a) the approval, refusal to approve or withdrawal of approval
            of a financial institution under section 4;

       (b) the lapsing, surrender, revocation or suspension of the
            licence of any person under section 141;

       (c) the acceptance by any person of an offer to compound an
            offence under section 177;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            319

       (d) the revocation or withdrawal of any exemption granted
            under this Act;

       (e) the conviction of any person for any offence under this
            Act;

        (f) any other action taken by the Authority against any person
            under this Act.

Disclosure of information

 185. Nothing in this Act requires the Minister or any public servant
(including a member of an Appeal Advisory Committee deemed to be
a public servant under section 14(6)(a)) to disclose facts which he or
she considers to be against the interest of the public to disclose.

Service of documents

 186.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
            if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
            address or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual; or

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
320  NO. 18 OF 2022

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

       (a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer of the
            partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the business address of the partnership;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the business
            address of the partnership; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the
            partnership.

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
            body corporate or unincorporated association, or to the
            manager of the limited liability partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the registered office or principal office of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the registered
            office or principal office of the body corporate or
            unincorporated association; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association.

 (5) Service of a document under subsection (2), (3) or (4) takes
effect —

       (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
            successful transmission is received, on the day of
            transmission;

       (b) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
            after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
            undelivered); or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            321

       (c) if the document is sent by email, at the time the email
            becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
            the document is sent.

 (6) A document may be served on a person under this Act by email
only with that person’s prior written consent.

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

 (8) In this section —

      “business address” means —

              (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
                   last known place of business, or place of
                   employment, in Singapore; or

              (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
                   liability partnership), the principal or last known
                   place of business in Singapore of the partnership;

      “document” includes a notice or an order permitted or required
         by this Act to be served;

      “last email address” means —

              (a) the last email address given, by the addressee
                   concerned to the person giving or serving the
                   document, as the email address for the service of
                   documents under this Act; or

              (b) the last email address of the addressee concerned
                   known to the person giving or serving the document;

      “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
         place of residence in Singapore.

Electronic service

 187.—(1) The Authority may provide an electronic service for the
service of any document that is required or authorised by this Act to
be served on any person.

 (2) For the purposes of the electronic service, the Authority may
assign to any person —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
322  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (a) an authentication code; and

       (b) an account with the electronic service.

 (3) Despite section 186, where a person has given consent for any
document to be served on the person through the electronic service —

       (a) the Authority may serve the document on that person by
            transmitting an electronic record of the document to that
            person’s account with the electronic service; and

       (b) the document is treated as having been served at the time
            when an electronic record of the document enters the
            person’s account with the electronic service.

 (4) In this section —

      “account with the electronic service”, in relation to any person,
         means a computer account within the electronic service that
         is assigned by the Authority to the person for the storage and
         retrieval of electronic records relating to the person;

      “authentication code”, in relation to any person, means an
         identification or identifying code, a password or any other
         authentication method or procedure that is assigned to the
         person for the purposes of identifying and authenticating the
         access to and use of the electronic service by the person;

      “document” includes a notice and an order;

      “electronic record” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
         Electronic Transactions Act 2010.

Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria

 188.—(1) For the purpose of determining whether a person is a fit
and proper person in relation to this Act or any provision of this Act,
the Authority may issue or adopt Guidelines on Fit and Proper
Criteria.

 (2) The Authority may, at any time, vary or revoke the Guidelines
on Fit and Proper Criteria mentioned in subsection (1), or any part of
the Guidelines.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            323

 (3) The Authority must —

       (a) ensure that the Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria, or
            their variation or revocation, are published on the
            Authority’s website;

       (b) specify in the publication, the date on which the Guidelines
            on Fit and Proper Criteria, or their variation or revocation,
            take effect; and

       (c) ensure that the Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria
            (including any variation to them) remain available to the
            public for access and inspection without charge.

 (4) To avoid doubt, the Guidelines on Fit and Proper Guidelines
mentioned in subsection (1) are deemed not to be subsidiary
legislation.

Exemption

 189.—(1) The Authority may, by regulations, exempt —

       (a) any person or class of persons from this Act or any
            provision of this Act; and

       (b) any of the following from all or any of the provisions of
            Part 9:

               (i) any digital token service or class of digital token
                   services;

              (ii) any shares or interests in shares, or class or
                   description of shares or interests in shares;

             (iii) any other thing or class or description of things,

subject to such conditions or restrictions as may be prescribed.

 (2) The Authority may at any time —

       (a) revoke any exemption mentioned in subsection (1); or

       (b) add to, vary or revoke any condition or restriction imposed
            under subsection (1).

 (3) Where the Authority, by regulations made under
subsection (1)(a), exempts any person or class of persons from

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
324  NO. 18 OF 2022

section 147(1) and (2), the conditions that may be prescribed include
the following conditions:

       (a) a condition relating to the operations or activities of the
            exempt person, or of any person in the exempt class of
            persons, relating to the grant of any credit facility within
            the meaning given by section 147(3) (called in this section
            a credit facility);

       (b) a condition relating to the criteria that must be satisfied in
            order for the exempt person, or any person in the exempt
            class of persons, to grant any credit facility to any
            individual in Singapore;

       (c) a condition relating to the standards to be maintained by
            the exempt person, or by any person in the exempt class of
            persons, when carrying on a business of granting any credit
            facility to any individual in Singapore;

       (d) a condition relating to the duties to be undertaken by the
            exempt person, or by any person in the exempt class of
            persons, when doing any of the following things:

               (i) granting any credit facility to any individual in
                   Singapore;

              (ii) offering to grant, or issuing any advertisement
                   containing any offer to grant, any credit facility to
                   any individual in Singapore;

             (iii) making an offer or invitation, or issuing any
                   advertisement containing any offer or invitation, to
                   any individual in Singapore to enter into any
                   agreement relating to the granting of any credit
                   facility to that individual;

       (e) a condition relating to the maintenance by the exempt
            person, or by any person in the exempt class of persons, of
            a licence, under any other written law, that allows that
            person to carry on a business of granting any credit facility
            to any individual in Singapore.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            325

 (4) Where the Authority, by regulations made under
subsection (1)(a), exempts any person or class of persons from
section 149, the conditions that may be prescribed include the
following conditions:

       (a) a condition restricting the disposal or further acquisition,
            by that person or class of persons, of any shares or voting
            power in a licensee;

       (b) a condition restricting the exercise, by that person or class
            of persons, of any voting power in a licensee.

 (5) The Authority may, on the application of any person, by written
notice exempt the person from —

       (a) all or any of the provisions of this Act; and

       (b) all or any of the requirements specified in any direction
            made by the Authority under this Act,

subject to such conditions or restrictions as the Authority may specify
by written notice.

 (6) The Authority may, at any time, by written notice to a person —

       (a) revoke any exemption mentioned in subsection (5); or

       (b) add to, vary or revoke any condition or restriction imposed
            on the person under subsection (5).

 (7) It is not necessary to publish any exemption granted under
subsection (5) in the Gazette.

 (8) A person who contravenes any condition or restriction —

       (a) prescribed under subsection (1);

       (b) specified by the Authority under subsection (5); or

       (c) added to or varied under subsection (2) or (6),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (d) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $50,000; or

       (e) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
326  NO. 18 OF 2022

 (9) In subsection (4), “licensee” has the meaning given by
section 136(1).

Amendment of Schedules

 190.—(1) The Minister may from time to time, by order in the
Gazette, amend, add to or vary the First, Second or Third Schedule.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2023 wef 01/04/2024]

 (2) The Minister may, in any order made under subsection (1),
make such incidental, consequential or supplementary provisions as
may be necessary or expedient.

 (3) Any order made under subsection (1) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Power of Minister to make regulations for or in respect to
appeals

 191.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for, or in respect of,
any appeal to the Minister mentioned in sections 4(6), 7(5), 9(5), 34,
48(6), 55(1), 142, 154 and 157.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may make
regulations for or with respect to —

       (a) the appointment of members to, and procedures of, the
            Appeal Advisory Panel and Appeal Advisory Committees
            mentioned in sections 13 and 14;

       (b) the remuneration of the members of the Appeal Advisory
            Panel and Appeal Advisory Committees mentioned in
            sections 13 and 14;

       (c) the form and manner in which an appeal to the Minister
            under this Act may be made; and

       (d) the fees to be paid in respect of any appeal made to the
            Minister under this Act, including the refund or remission,
            whether in whole or in part, of such fees.

Power of Authority to make regulations

 192.—(1) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, the
Authority may make regulations prescribing matters required or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            327

permitted by this Act to be prescribed, or necessary or convenient to
be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Act.

 (1A) Without limiting subsection (1), regulations made under this
section may prescribe any matter concerning the production of books
or a copy thereof, or giving access to books or data under
section 173L or 173M(5)(b), including the form and manner in
which the production or giving access is to be carried out.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2024 wef 24/01/2025]

 (2) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, regulations
made by the Authority under this Act —

       (a) may be of general or specific application;

       (b) may contain such saving and transitional provisions as the
            Authority may consider necessary or expedient;

       (c) may provide that a contravention of any specified
            provision of the regulations shall be an offence; and

       (d) may provide —

               (i) in the case of an individual, for penalties not
                   exceeding a fine of $50,000 or imprisonment for a
                   term not exceeding 2 years or both for each offence
                   and, in the case of a continuing offence, a further
                   penalty not exceeding a fine of $5,000 for every day
                   or part of a day during which the offence continues
                   after conviction; and

              (ii) in any other case, for penalties not exceeding a fine
                   of $100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence,
                   a further penalty not exceeding a fine of $10,000 for
                   every day or part of a day during which the offence
                   continues after conviction.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
328  NO. 18 OF 2022

                                   PART 13

                  CONSEQUENTIAL AND RELATED
                  AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS

Amendment of Banking Act 1970

 193.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), section 2(1) of the Banking
Act 1970 is amended by deleting the definition of “financial holding
company” and substituting the following definition:

      “ “financial holding company” means a company belonging to a
           class of financial institutions approved as financial holding
           companies under section 4 of the Financial Services and
           Markets Act 2022;”.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if section 78(a) of the Financial
Holding Companies Act 2013 (which also amends section 2(1) of the
Banking Act 1970) is brought into operation before the date on which
subsection (1) and this subsection are brought into operation.

 (3) Section 20 of the Banking Act 1970 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the word “or” at the end of
            subsection (1)(a)(viii);

       (b) by inserting the word “or” at the end of sub‑paragraph (ix)
            of subsection (1)(a), and by inserting immediately
            thereafter the following sub‑paragraph:

                               “(x) is contravening or has contravened
                                      any provision of the Financial
                                      Services and Markets Act 2022 or
                                      any direction issued by the Authority
                                      under that Act;”; and

       (c) by deleting the words “Division 2, 3, 4 or 4A of Part 4B of
            the Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970” in
            subsections (1)(b) and (7) and substituting in each case
            the words “Division 2, 4, 5 or 6 of Part 8 of the Financial
            Services and Markets Act 2022”.

 (4) Section 43(3) of the Banking Act 1970 is amended by deleting
the words “section 27C of the Monetary Authority of Singapore

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            329

Act 1970” and substituting the words “section 169 of the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2022”.

 (5) Section 45(6A) of the Banking Act 1970 is amended by deleting
the words “section 152 of the Monetary Authority of Singapore
Act 1970” in paragraph (a) and substituting the words “section 17 of
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022”.

 (6) Section 54 of the Banking Act 1970 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “under section 68 of the Financial
            Advisers Act 2001, section 74 of the Insurance Act 1966 or
            section 101A or 123ZZC of the Securities and Futures
            Act 2001” in subsection (1)(g); and

       (b) by inserting, immediately before the definition of
            “regulated financial institution” in subsection (9), the
            following definition:

                  “ “prohibition order” means —

                                (a) a prohibition order made under
                                     section 68(1) of the Financial
                                     Advisers Act 2001 as in force
                                     immediately before the date of
                                     commencement of section 200(1)(b)
                                     and (2) to (7) of the Financial
                                     Services and Markets Act 2022;

                                (b) a prohibition order made under
                                     section 68(1) of the Financial
                                     Advisers Act 2001 as in force
                                     immediately before the date of
                                     commencement of section 200(1)(b)
                                     and (2) to (7) of the Financial
                                     Services and Markets Act 2022, and
                                     as continued by section 217(2) of the
                                     Financial Services and Markets
                                     Act 2022;

                                (c) an order made under section 74(1) of
                                     the Insurance Act 1966 as in force
                                     immediately before the date of

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
330  NO. 18 OF 2022

     commencement of section 204(1) to
     (4) of the Financial Services and
     Markets Act 2022;

     (d) an order made under section 74(1) of
          the Insurance Act 1966 as in force
          immediately before the date of
          commencement of section 204(1) to
          (4) of the Financial Services and
          Markets Act 2022, and as continued
          by section 218(2) of the Financial
          Services and Markets Act 2022;

     (e) a prohibition order made under

     section 101A(1) of the Securities

     and Futures Act 2001 as in force

     immediately before the date

     of         commencement                                   of

     section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

     (14), (17) and (18) of the Financial

     Services and Markets Act 2022;

     (f) a prohibition order made under

     section 101A(1) of the Securities

     and Futures Act 2001 as in force

     immediately before the date

     of         commencement                                   of

     section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

     (14), (17) and (18) of the Financial

     Services and Markets Act 2022, and

     as continued by section 220(3) of the

     Financial Services and Markets

     Act 2022;

     (g) a prohibition order made under

     section 123ZZC(1) of the Securities

     and Futures Act 2001 as in force

     immediately before the date

     of         commencement                                   of

     section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            331

(14), (17) and (18) of the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2022;

(h) a prohibition order made under

section 123ZZC(1) of the Securities

and Futures Act 2001 as in force

immediately before the date

of  commencement                                          of

section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

(14), (17) and (18) of the Financial

Services and Markets Act 2022, and

as continued by section 220(5) of the

Financial Services and Markets

Act 2022; or

(i) a prohibition order made under
    section 7(1) of the Financial
    Services and Markets Act 2022;”.

(7) Section 55ZA of the Banking Act 1970 is amended —

(a) by inserting, immediately after the words “Monetary
     Authority of Singapore Act 1970” in
     subsection (1)(a)(ii)(B), the words “as in force
     immediately before the date of commencement of
     section 205 of the Financial Services and Markets
     Act 2022 or to be approved under section 4(2) of the
     Financial Services and Markets Act 2022”;

(b) by deleting the word “or” at the end of
     subsection (1)(a)(vii);

(c) by inserting the word “or” at the end of
    sub‑paragraph (viii) of subsection (1)(a), and by
    inserting immediately thereafter the following
    sub‑paragraph:

“(ix) is contravening or has contravened
       any direction issued by the Authority
       under the Financial Services and
       Markets Act 2022 or any provision
       of that Act;”; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
332  NO. 18 OF 2022

      (d) by deleting the words “Division 2, 3, 4 or 4A of Part 4B of
           the Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970” in
           subsections (1)(b)(ii) and (7)(b) and substituting in each
           case the words “Division 2, 4, 5 or 6 of Part 8 of the
           Financial Services and Markets Act 2022”.

(8) Section 57FB of the Banking Act 1970 is amended —

      (a) by deleting the words “under section 68 of the Financial
           Advisers Act 2001, section 74 of the Insurance Act 1966 or
           section 101A of the Securities and Futures Act 2001” in
           subsection (1)(g); and

      (b) by inserting, immediately before the definition of
           “regulated financial institution” in subsection (9), the
           following definition:

                 “ “prohibition order” means —

                               (a) a prohibition order made under
                                    section 68(1) of the Financial
                                    Advisers Act 2001 as in force
                                    immediately before the date of
                                    commencement of section 200(1)(b)
                                    and (2) to (7) of the Financial
                                    Services and Markets Act 2022;

                               (b) a prohibition order made under
                                    section 68(1) of the Financial
                                    Advisers Act 2001 as in force
                                    immediately before the date of
                                    commencement of section 200(1)(b)
                                    and (2) to (7) of the Financial
                                    Services and Markets Act 2022, and
                                    as continued by section 217(2) of the
                                    Financial Services and Markets
                                    Act 2022;

                               (c) an order made under section 74(1) of
                                    the Insurance Act 1966 as in force
                                    immediately before the date of
                                    commencement of section 204(1) to

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            333

(4) of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2022;

(d) an order made under section 74(1) of
     the Insurance Act 1966 as in force
     immediately before the date of
     commencement of section 204(1) to
     (4) of the Financial Services and
     Markets Act 2022, and as continued
     by section 218(2) of the Financial
     Services and Markets Act 2022;

(e) a prohibition order made under

section 101A(1) of the Securities

and Futures Act 2001 as in force

immediately before the date

of  commencement                                          of

section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

(14), (17) and (18) of the Financial

Services and Markets Act 2022;

(f) a prohibition order made under

section 101A(1) of the Securities

and Futures Act 2001 as in force

immediately before the date

of  commencement                                          of

section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

(14), (17) and (18) of the Financial

Services and Markets Act 2022, and

as continued by section 220(3) of the

Financial Services and Markets

Act 2022; or

(g) a prohibition order made under
     section 7(1) of the Financial
     Services and Markets Act 2022;”.

 (9) Section 62(1) of the Banking Act 1970 is amended by deleting
the words “(within the meaning of section 98 of the Monetary
Authority of Singapore Act 1970) from the bank under section 103,
104, 105 or 106 of that Act” in paragraph (e) and substituting the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
334               NO. 18 OF 2022

words “within the meaning of section 107 of the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2022 from the bank under section 112, 113, 114 or
115 of that Act”.

 (10) Section 62B(3) of the Banking Act 1970 is amended by
deleting the words “(within the meaning of section 98 of the
Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970) from the merchant bank
under section 103, 104, 105 or 106 of that Act” in paragraph (b) and
substituting the words “within the meaning of section 107 of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2022 from the merchant bank
under section 112, 113, 114 or 115 of that Act”.

(11) Part 2 of the Third Schedule to the Banking Act 1970 is

amended by deleting items 4B, 4C and 4D and substituting the

following items:

     “ 4B. Disclosure is solely in Any —

     connection with the          (a) transferor or transferee,
     transfer or proposed              defined in section 56 of the
     transfer of the business of       Monetary Authority of
     the bank to a company             Singapore Act 1970 as in
     under Division 2 of               force immediately before
     Part 4B of the Monetary           the date of commencement
     Authority of Singapore            of section 193 of the
     Act 1970 as in force              Financial Services and
     immediately before the            Markets Act 2022;
     date of commencement of
     section 193 of the           (b) person affected by the

     Financial Services and               transfer;

     Markets Act 2022,            (c) professional adviser
     whether or not the transfer      appointed by any person
     is subsequently carried          mentioned in paragraph (a)
     out or completed.                or (b); or

                                  (d) independent assessor
                                       appointed by the Authority
                                       under section 57 of the
                                       Monetary Authority of
                                       Singapore Act 1970 as in
                                       force immediately before
                                       the date of commencement
                                       of section 193 of the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                              335

                                    Financial Services and
                                    Markets Act 2022.

4BA. Disclosure is solely in Any —

connection with the          (a) transferor or transferee,
transfer or proposed              defined in section 65 of the
transfer of the business of       Financial Services and
the bank to a company             Markets Act 2022;
under Division 2 of Part 8

of the Financial Services (b) person affected by the

and Markets Act 2022,               transfer;

whether or not the transfer  (c) professional adviser
is subsequently carried          appointed by any person
out or completed.                mentioned in paragraph (a)

                                    or (b); or

                             (d) independent assessor
                                  appointed by the Authority
                                  under section 66 of the
                                  Financial Services and
                                  Markets Act 2022.

4C. Disclosure is solely in Any —

connection with the          (a) transferor or transferee,
transfer or proposed              defined in section 65 of the
transfer of the shares in         Monetary Authority of
the bank under Division 3         Singapore Act 1970 as in
of Part 4B of the                 force immediately before
Monetary Authority of             the date of commencement
Singapore Act 1970 as in          of section 193 of the
force immediately before          Financial Services and
the date of                       Markets Act 2022;
commencement of

section 193 of the           (b) professional adviser

Financial Services and              appointed by the transferor

Markets Act 2022,                   or transferee; or

whether or not the transfer  (c) independent assessor
is subsequently carried          appointed by the Authority
out or completed.                under section 66 of the

                                    Monetary Authority of

                                    Singapore Act 1970 as in

                                    force immediately before

                                    the date of commencement

                                    of section 193 of the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
336                   NO. 18 OF 2022

                                         Financial Services and
                                         Markets Act 2022.

     4CA. Disclosure is solely in Any —

     connection with the           (a) transferor or transferee,
     transfer or proposed               defined in section 74 of the
     transfer of the shares in          Financial Services and
     the bank under Division 4          Markets Act 2022;
     of Part 8 of the Financial

     Services and Markets          (b) professional adviser

     Act 2022, whether or not            appointed by the transferor

     the transfer is                     or transferee; or

     subsequently carried out      (c) independent assessor
     or completed.                     appointed by the Authority

                                         under section 75 of the

                                         Financial Services and

                                         Markets Act 2022.

     4D. Disclosure is solely in Any —

     connection with the           (a) shareholder of the bank;
     restructuring or proposed

     restructuring of the share (b) subscriber defined in

     capital of the bank under           section 68 of the Monetary

     Division 4 of Part 4B of            Authority of Singapore

     the Monetary Authority of           Act 1970 as in force

     Singapore Act 1970 as in            immediately before the

     force immediately before            date of commencement of

     the date of                         section 193 of the

     commencement of                     Financial Services and

     section 193 of the                  Markets Act 2022;

     Financial Services and        (c) professional adviser
     Markets Act 2022,                 appointed by the bank or
     whether or not the                any person mentioned in
     restructuring is carried out      paragraph (a) or (b); or
     or completed.

                                   (d) independent assessor

                                         appointed by the Authority

                                         under section 69 of the

                                         Monetary Authority of

                                         Singapore Act 1970 as in

                                         force immediately before

                                         the date of commencement

                                         of section 193 of the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                               337

                                    Financial Services and
                                    Markets Act 2022.

4DA. Disclosure is solely in Any —

connection with the           (a) shareholder of the bank;
restructuring or proposed

restructuring of the share (b) subscriber defined in

capital of the bank under           section 77 of the Financial

Division 5 of Part 8 of the         Services and Markets

Financial Services and              Act 2022;

Markets Act 2022,             (c) professional adviser
whether or not the                appointed by the bank or
restructuring is carried out      any person mentioned in
or completed.                     paragraph (a) or (b); or

                              (d) independent assessor

                                    appointed by the Authority

                                    under section 78 of the

                                    Financial Services and

                                    Markets Act 2022.            ”.

Amendment of Companies Act 1967

 194.—(1) Section 8G of the Companies Act 1967 is amended by
deleting the words “sections 27 and 28 of the Monetary Authority of
Singapore Act 1970” and substituting the words “sections 3 and 4 of
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022”.

 (2) Section 145(6) of the Companies Act 1967 is amended —

       (a) by inserting, immediately after the words “Financial
            Holdings Companies Act 2013,” in paragraph (b), the
            words “section 48 of the Financial Services and Markets
            Act 2022,”; and

       (b) by inserting, immediately after the words “Monetary
            Authority of Singapore Act 1970” in paragraph (b), the
            words “as in force immediately before the date of
            commencement of section 205 of the Financial Services
            and Markets Act 2022”.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
338  NO. 18 OF 2022

Amendment of Corruption, Drug Trafficking and Other
Serious Crimes (Confiscation of Benefits) Act 1992

 195. Section 2(1) of the Corruption, Drug Trafficking and Other
Serious Crimes (Confiscation of Benefits) Act 1992 is amended by
deleting the definition of “financial institution” and substituting the
following definition:

      “ “financial institution” has the meaning given by section 2 of
           the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022, and includes
           a VCC;”.

Amendment of Credit Bureau Act 2016

 196.—(1) Section 2 of the Credit Bureau Act 2016 is amended by
deleting the words “approved as a financial institution under
section 28 of the Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970” in
the definition of “merchant bank” and substituting the words
“licensed under the Banking Act 1970”.

 (2) Section 46 of the Credit Bureau Act 2016 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “under section 68 of the Financial
            Advisers Act 2001, section 74 of the Insurance Act 1966 or
            section 101A of the Securities and Futures Act 2001” in
            subsection (5)(e); and

       (b) by inserting, immediately before the definition of
            “regulated financial institution” in subsection (12), the
            following definition:

                  “ “prohibition order” means —

                                (a) a prohibition order made under
                                     section 68(1) of the Financial
                                     Advisers Act 2001 as in force
                                     immediately before the date of
                                     commencement of section 200(1)(b)
                                     and (2) to (7) of the Financial
                                     Services and Markets Act 2022;

                                (b) a prohibition order made under
                                     section 68(1) of the Financial
                                     Advisers Act 2001 as in force

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            339

immediately before the date of
commencement of section 200(1)(b)
and (2) to (7) of the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2022, and
as continued by section 217(2) of the
Financial Services and Markets
Act 2022;

(c) an order made under section 74(1) of
    the Insurance Act 1966 as in force
    immediately before the date of
    commencement of section 204(1) to
    (4) of the Financial Services and
    Markets Act 2022;

(d) an order made under section 74(1) of
     the Insurance Act 1966 as in force
     immediately before the date of
     commencement of section 204(1) to
     (4) of the Financial Services and
     Markets Act 2022, and as continued
     by section 218(2) of the Financial
     Services and Markets Act 2022;

(e) a prohibition order made under

section 101A(1) of the Securities

and Futures Act 2001 as in force

immediately before the date

of  commencement                                          of

section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

(14), (17) and (18) of the Financial

Services and Markets Act 2022;

(f) a prohibition order made under

section 101A(1) of the Securities

and Futures Act 2001 as in force

immediately before the date

of  commencement                                          of

section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

(14), (17) and (18) of the Financial

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
340  NO. 18 OF 2022

                                     Services and Markets Act 2022, and
                                     as continued by section 220(3) of the
                                     Financial Services and Markets
                                     Act 2022; or

                                (g) a prohibition order made under
                                     section 7(1) of the Financial
                                     Services and Markets Act 2022;”.

 (3) Section 49(11) of the Credit Bureau Act 2016 is amended by
inserting, immediately after paragraph (d), the following paragraph:

          “(da) Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;”.

Amendment of Criminal Procedure Code 2010

 197. The Sixth Schedule to the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 is
amended —

       (a) by inserting, immediately after item 2, the following item:

                “2A. Any offence under section 16(4) of the Financial Services

                           and Markets Act 2022.”; and

       (b) by inserting, immediately after the words “Monetary
            Authority of Singapore Act 1970” in item 3, the words
            “as in force immediately before the date of commencement
            of section 205 of the Financial Services and Markets
            Act 2022”.

Amendment of Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners’
Protection Schemes Act 2011

 198.—(1) Section 2(1) of the Deposit Insurance and Policy
Owners’ Protection Schemes Act 2011 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the definitions of “resolution fund” and
            “resolution measure” and substituting the following
            definitions:

                  “ “resolution fund” means a fund established under
                        section 108 of the Financial Services and
                        Markets Act 2022;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            341

                     “resolution measure” has the meaning given by
                        section 107 of the Financial Services and
                        Markets Act 2022;”; and

       (b) by deleting the words “section 99(2) of the Monetary
            Authority of Singapore Act 1970” in the definition of
            “trustee” (in relation to a resolution fund) and substituting
            the words “section 108(2) of the Financial Services and
            Markets Act 2022”.

 (2) Section 10(2) of the Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners’
Protection Schemes Act 2011 is amended by deleting the words
“Division 5B of Part 4B of the Monetary Authority of Singapore
Act 1970” and substituting the words “Division 10 of Part 8 of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2022”.

 (3) Section 28A(1) of the Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners’
Protection Schemes Act 2011 is amended by inserting, immediately
after the words “section 54(4) of the Monetary Authority of
Singapore Act 1970” in paragraph (b), the words “as in force
immediately before the date of commencement of section 205 of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2022 or under section 63(4) of
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022”.

 (4) Section 46(1) of the Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners’
Protection Schemes Act 2011 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the word “or” at the end of paragraph (d); and

       (b) by deleting paragraph (e) and substituting the following
            paragraphs:

                        “(e) on or after 1 September 2011 but before the
                               date of commencement of section 205 of
                               the Financial Services and Markets
                               Act 2022, the Authority had exercised its
                               powers under Part 4B of the Monetary
                               Authority of Singapore Act 1970 as in
                               force immediately before that date in
                               relation to a PPF Scheme member; or

                          (f) on or after the date of commencement of
                               section 205 of the Financial Services and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
342  NO. 18 OF 2022

                               Markets Act 2022, the Authority is
                               exercising or is likely to exercise, or has
                               exercised, its powers under Part 8 of the
                               Financial Services and Markets Act 2022
                               in relation to a PPF Scheme member,”.

 (5) Section 54A(1) of the Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners’
Protection Schemes Act 2011 is amended by inserting, immediately
after the words “section 54(4) of the Monetary Authority of
Singapore Act 1970” in paragraph (b), the words “as in force
immediately before the date of commencement of section 205 of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2022 or under section 63(4) of
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022”.

Amendment of Finance Companies Act 1967

 199.—(1) Section 15(1) of the Finance Companies Act 1967 is
amended by deleting the words “Division 2, 3, 4 or 4A of Part 4B of
the Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970” in paragraph (c)(ii)
and substituting the words “Division 2, 4, 5 or 6 of Part 8 of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2022”.

 (2) Section 44A(1) of the Finance Companies 1967 is amended by
deleting the words “(within the meaning of section 98 of the
Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970) from the finance
company under section 103, 104, 105 or 106 of that Act” in
paragraph (c) and substituting the words “within the meaning of
section 107 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022 from the
finance company under section 112, 113, 114 or 115 of that Act”.

 (3) Section 47 of the Finance Companies Act 1967 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “under section 68 of the Financial
            Advisers Act 2001, section 74 of the Insurance Act 1966 or
            section 101A or 123ZZC of the Securities and Futures
            Act 2001” in subsection (1)(e); and

       (b) by inserting, immediately before the definition of
            “regulated financial institution” in subsection (9), the
            following definition:

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            343

“ “prohibition order” means —

              (a) a prohibition order made under
                   section 68(1) of the Financial
                   Advisers Act 2001 as in force
                   immediately before the date of
                   commencement of section 200(1)(b)
                   and (2) to (7) of the Financial
                   Services and Markets Act 2022;

              (b) a prohibition order made under
                   section 68(1) of the Financial
                   Advisers Act 2001 as in force
                   immediately before the date of
                   commencement of section 200(1)(b)
                   and (2) to (7) of the Financial
                   Services and Markets Act 2022, and
                   as continued by section 217(2) of the
                   Financial Services and Markets
                   Act 2022;

              (c) an order made under section 74(1) of
                   the Insurance Act 1966 as in force
                   immediately before the date of
                   commencement of section 204(1) to
                   (4) of the Financial Services and
                   Markets Act 2022;

              (d) an order made under section 74(1) of
                   the Insurance Act 1966 as in force
                   immediately before the date of
                   commencement of section 204(1) to
                   (4) of the Financial Services and
                   Markets Act 2022, and as continued
                   by section 218(2) of the Financial
                   Services and Markets Act 2022;

              (e) a prohibition order made under
                   section 101A(1) of the Securities
                   and Futures Act 2001 as in force
                   immediately before the date

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
344  NO. 18 OF 2022

     of         commencement                                   of

     section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

     (14), (17) and (18) of the Financial

     Services and Markets Act 2022;

     (f) a prohibition order made under

     section 101A(1) of the Securities

     and Futures Act 2001 as in force

     immediately before the date

     of         commencement                                   of

     section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

     (14), (17) and (18) of the Financial

     Services and Markets Act 2022, and

     as continued by section 220(3) of the

     Financial Services and Markets

     Act 2022;

     (g) a prohibition order made under

     section 123ZZC(1) of the Securities

     and Futures Act 2001 as in force

     immediately before the date

     of         commencement                                   of

     section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

     (14), (17) and (18) of the Financial

     Services and Markets Act 2022;

     (h) a prohibition order made under

     section 123ZZC(1) of the Securities

     and Futures Act 2001 as in force

     immediately before the date

     of         commencement                                   of

     section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

     (14), (17) and (18) of the Financial

     Services and Markets Act 2022, and

     as continued by section 220(5) of the

     Financial Services and Markets

     Act 2022; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            345

                                 (i) a prohibition order made under
                                     section 7(1) of the Financial
                                     Services and Markets Act 2022;”.

 (4) Section 54(1) of the Finance Companies Act 1967 is amended
by deleting the words “Part 4B of the Monetary Authority of
Singapore Act 1970” and substituting the words “Part 8 of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2022”.

Amendment of Financial Advisers Act 2001

 200.—(1) Section 2(1) of the Financial Advisers Act 2001 is
amended —

       (a) by inserting, immediately after paragraph (b) of the
            definition of “prescribed written law”, the following
            paragraph:

                       “(ba) Financial Services and Markets Act
                               2022;”; and

       (b) by inserting, immediately after the definition of
            “principal”, the following definition:

                  “ “prohibition order” means, unless the context
                        otherwise requires —

                                (a) a prohibition order made under
                                     section 68(1) as in force
                                     immediately before the date of
                                     commencement of section 200(1)(b)
                                     and (2) to (7) of the Financial
                                     Services and Markets Act 2022;

                                (b) a prohibition order made under
                                     section 68(1) as in force
                                     immediately before the date of
                                     commencement of section 200(1)(b)
                                     and (2) to (7) of the Financial
                                     Services and Markets Act 2022, and
                                     as continued by section 217(2) of the
                                     Financial Services and Markets
                                     Act 2022; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
346  NO. 18 OF 2022

                                (c) a prohibition order made under
                                     section 7(1) of the Financial
                                     Services and Markets Act 2022;”.

 (2) The Financial Advisers Act 2001 is amended by deleting the
words “under section 68 has been made by the Authority” in the
following provisions and substituting in each case the words “has
been made”:

  Section 8(1)(l) and (4)(c)
  Section 15(2)(g) and (5)(c)
  Section 30(1)(q) and (10)(b)
  Section 63(7)(b)
  Section 64(4)(b)
  Section 66(2)(c).

 (3) The Financial Advisers Act 2001 is amended by deleting the
words “under section 68” in the following provisions:

  Section 11(2)(c)
  Section 21(2)(a)(iii) and (b)(iii)
  Section 23(4)(c).

 (4) Section 64(1) of the Financial Advisers Act 2001 is amended by
deleting the words “under section 68 made by the Authority” in
paragraph (g) and substituting the word “made”.

 (5) The Financial Advisers Act 2001 is amended by repealing the
following sections:

  Section 68
  Section 69
  Section 70
  Section 71.

 (6) Section 72(2) of the Financial Advisers Act 2001 is amended by
deleting the words “are made under section 68” and substituting the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            347

words “had been made under section 68 as in force immediately
before the date of commencement of section 200(1)(b) and (2) to (7)
of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022 or as continued by
section 217(2) of that Act”.

 (7) Section 77 of the Financial Advisers Act 2001 is amended by
inserting, immediately after the words “section 68” in paragraph (c),
the words “as in force immediately before the date of commencement
of section 200(1)(b) and (2) to (7) of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2022 or as continued by section 217(2) of that Act”.

 (8) Section 82 of the Financial Advisers Act 2001 is amended by
deleting the words “section 152 of the Monetary Authority of
Singapore Act 1970” in paragraph (a) and substituting the words
“section 17 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022”.

 (9) Section 105 of the Financial Advisers Act 2001 is amended by
deleting the words “section 154(1) of the Monetary Authority of
Singapore Act 1970” and substituting the words “section 19(1) of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2022”.

Amendment of Financial Holding Companies Act 2013

 201.—(1) Section 53 of the Financial Holding Companies Act 2013
is amended by inserting, immediately after paragraph (c) of the
definition of “prescribed written law”, the following paragraph:

          “(ca) Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;”.

 (2) Section 62 of the Financial Holding Companies Act 2013 is
amended —

       (a) by deleting paragraph (e) of subsection (1) and substituting
            the following paragraph:

                        “(e) has had a prohibition order made against
                               him that remains in force; or”; and

       (b) by inserting, immediately before the definition of
            “regulatory authority” in subsection (3), the following
            definition:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
348  NO. 18 OF 2022

     “ “prohibition order” means —

                   (a) a prohibition order made under
                        section 68(1) of the Financial
                        Advisers Act 2001 as in force
                        immediately before the date of
                        commencement of section 200(1)(b)
                        and (2) to (7) of the Financial
                        Services and Markets Act 2022;

                   (b) a prohibition order made under
                        section 68(1) of the Financial
                        Advisers Act 2001 as in force
                        immediately before the date of
                        commencement of section 200(1)(b)
                        and (2) to (7) of the Financial
                        Services and Markets Act 2022, and
                        as continued by section 217(2) of the
                        Financial Services and Markets
                        Act 2022;

                   (c) an order made under section 74(1) of
                        the Insurance Act 1966 as in force
                        immediately before the date of
                        commencement of section 204(1) to
                        (4) of the Financial Services and
                        Markets Act 2022;

                   (d) an order made under section 74(1) of
                        the Insurance Act 1966 as in force
                        immediately before the date of
                        commencement of section 204(1) to
                        (4) of the Financial Services and
                        Markets Act 2022, and as continued
                        by section 218(2) of the Financial
                        Services and Markets Act 2022;

                   (e) a prohibition order made under
                        section 101A(1) of the Securities
                        and Futures Act 2001 as in force
                        immediately before the date

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            349

of         commencement                                   of

section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

(14), (17) and (18) of the Financial

Services and Markets Act 2022;

(f) a prohibition order made under

section 101A(1) of the Securities

and Futures Act 2001 as in force

immediately before the date

of         commencement                                   of

section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

(14), (17) and (18) of the Financial

Services and Markets Act 2022, and

as continued by section 220(3) of the

Financial Services and Markets

Act 2022;

(g) a prohibition order made under

section 123ZZC(1) of the Securities

and Futures Act 2001 as in force

immediately before the date

of         commencement                                   of

section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

(14), (17) and (18) of the Financial

Services and Markets Act 2022;

(h) a prohibition order made under

section 123ZZC(1) of the Securities

and Futures Act 2001 as in force

immediately before the date

of         commencement                                   of

section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

(14), (17) and (18) of the Financial

Services and Markets Act 2022, and

as continued by section 220(5) of the

Financial Services and Markets

Act 2022; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
350  NO. 18 OF 2022

                                 (i) a prohibition order made under
                                     section 7(1) of the Financial
                                     Services and Markets Act 2022;”.

Amendment of Income Tax Act 1947

 202.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), section 10I(2) of the Income
Tax Act 1947 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the word “either —” in paragraph (b) of the
            definition of “AT1 instrument” and substituting the words
            “satisfies any of the following:”;

       (b) by deleting the word “or” at the end of paragraph (b)(i) of
            the definition of “AT1 instrument”;

       (c) by deleting sub‑paragraph (ii) of paragraph (b) of the
            definition of “AT1 instrument” and substituting the
            following sub‑paragraphs:

                               “(ii) according to a direction issued under
                                      section 28(3) of the Monetary
                                      Authority of Singapore Act 1970 as
                                      in force immediately before the date
                                      of commencement of the Financial
                                      Holding Companies Act 2013 and to
                                      MAS Notice 637, may be used to
                                      satisfy the capital adequacy
                                      requirement of any other financial
                                      institution within the meaning of
                                      section 27A(6) of the Monetary
                                      Authority of Singapore Act 1970 as
                                      in force immediately before the date
                                      of commencement of the Financial
                                      Holding Companies Act 2013;

                                (iii) according to MAS Notice
                                      FHC‑N637, may be used to satisfy
                                      the capital adequacy requirement of a
                                      financial holding company
                                      designated under section 4 of the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            351

                                      Financial Holding Companies
                                      Act 2013;”; and

       (d) by inserting, immediately after the definition of “full
            banking licence”, the following definition:

                  “ “MAS Notice FHC-N637” means the notice
                        commonly known as MAS Notice FHC‑N637
                        that is issued by the Monetary Authority of
                        Singapore under section 36(1) of the Financial
                        Holding Companies Act 2013, and includes any
                        notice that replaces it;”.

 (2) Subsection (1) only applies if the Financial Holding Companies
Act 2013 is brought into operation before Part 2 of this Act is brought
into operation.

 (3) Subject to subsection (5), section 10I(2) of the Income Tax
Act 1947 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the word “either —” in paragraph (b) of the
            definition of “AT1 instrument” and substituting the words
            “satisfies any of the following:”;

       (b) by deleting the word “or” at the end of paragraph (b)(i) of
            the definition of “AT1 instrument”; and

       (c) by deleting sub‑paragraph (ii) of paragraph (b) of the
            definition of “AT1 instrument” and substituting the
            following sub‑paragraphs:

                               “(ii) according to a direction issued under
                                      section 28(3) of the Monetary
                                      Authority of Singapore Act 1970 as
                                      in force immediately before the date
                                      of commencement of Part 2 of the
                                      Financial Services and Markets
                                      Act 2022 and to MAS Notice 637,
                                      may be used to satisfy the capital
                                      adequacy requirement of any other
                                      financial institution within the
                                      meaning of section 27A(6) of the
                                      Monetary Authority of Singapore

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
352  NO. 18 OF 2022

                                      Act 1970 as in force immediately
                                      before the date of commencement of
                                      Part 2 of the Financial Services and
                                      Markets Act 2022;

                                (iii) according to a direction issued under
                                      section 4(3) of the Financial Services
                                      and Markets Act 2022 and to MAS
                                      Notice 637, may be used to satisfy
                                      the capital adequacy requirement of
                                      any other financial institution within
                                      the meaning of section 2 of the
                                      Financial Services and Markets
                                      Act 2022;”.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), section 10I(2) of the Income Tax
Act 1947, as amended by subsection (3), is further amended —

       (a) by deleting sub‑paragraph (iii) of paragraph (b) of the
            definition of “AT1 instrument” and substituting the
            following sub‑paragraphs:

                              “(iii) according to a direction issued under
                                      section 4(3) of the Financial Services
                                      and Markets Act 2022 as in force
                                      immediately before the date of
                                      commencement of the Financial
                                      Holding Companies Act 2013 and
                                      to MAS Notice 637, may be used to
                                      satisfy the capital adequacy
                                      requirement of any other financial
                                      institution within the meaning of
                                      section 2 of the Financial Services
                                      and Markets Act 2022 as in force
                                      immediately before the date of
                                      commencement of the Financial
                                      Holding Companies Act 2013;

                                (iv) according to MAS Notice
                                      FHC‑N637, may be used to satisfy
                                      the capital adequacy requirement of a

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            353

                                      financial holding company
                                      designated under section 4 of the
                                      Financial Holding Companies
                                      Act 2013;”; and

       (b) by inserting, immediately after the definition of “full
            banking licence”, the following definition:

                  “ “MAS Notice FHC-N637” means the notice
                        commonly known as MAS Notice FHC‑N637
                        that is issued by the Monetary Authority of
                        Singapore under section 36(1) of the Financial
                        Holding Companies Act 2013, and includes any
                        notice that replaces it;”.

 (5) Subsections (3) and (4) only apply if the Financial Holding
Companies Act 2013 is brought into operation on or after the date
Part 2 of this Act is brought into operation.

Amendment of Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
Act 2018

 203.—(1) Section 72U(3) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
Dissolution Act 2018 is amended —

       (a) by inserting, immediately after paragraph (h), the
            following paragraph:

                       “(ha) the Financial Services and Markets
                               Act 2022;”; and

       (b) by deleting paragraph (l).

 (2) Section 250(7) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
Act 2018 is amended —

       (a) by deleting paragraph (ba) of the definition of “relevant
            company”; and

       (b) by inserting, immediately after paragraph (c) of the
            definition of “relevant company”, the following paragraph:

                       “(ca) a financial institution approved under
                               section 4 of the Financial Services and
                               Markets Act 2022;”.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
354  NO. 18 OF 2022

 (3) Paragraph 3 of Article 1 of the Third Schedule to the Insolvency,
Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 is amended —

       (a) by inserting, immediately after sub‑paragraph (c), the
            following sub‑paragraph:

                     “(ca) Part 7 or 8 or section 189 of the Financial Services and

                                 Markets Act 2022;”; and

       (b) by deleting sub‑paragraph (f).

Amendment of Insurance Act 1966

 204.—(1) Section 36 of the Insurance Act 1966 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “under section 74, or under
            section 68 of the Financial Advisers Act 2001 or
            section 101A or 123ZZC of the Securities and Futures
            Act 2001,” in subsection (1)(g); and

       (b) by inserting, immediately before the definition of
            “regulated financial institution” in subsection (3), the
            following definition:

                  “ “prohibition order” means —

                                (a) a prohibition order made under
                                     section 68(1) of the Financial
                                     Advisers Act 2001 as in force
                                     immediately before the date of
                                     commencement of section 200(1)(b)
                                     and (2) to (7) of the Financial
                                     Services and Markets Act 2022;

                                (b) a prohibition order made under
                                     section 68(1) of the Financial
                                     Advisers Act 2001 as in force
                                     immediately before the date of
                                     commencement of section 200(1)(b)
                                     and (2) to (7) of the Financial
                                     Services and Markets Act 2022, and
                                     as continued by section 217(2) of the
                                     Financial Services and Markets
                                     Act 2022;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            355

(c) an order made under section 74(1) as
    in force immediately before the date
    of commencement of section 204(1)
    to (4) of the Financial Services and
    Markets Act 2022;

(d) an order made under section 74(1) as
     in force immediately before the date
     of commencement of section 204(1)
     to (4) of the Financial Services and
     Markets Act 2022, and as continued
     by section 218(2) of the Financial
     Services and Markets Act 2022;

(e) a prohibition order made under

section 101A(1) of the Securities

and Futures Act 2001 as in force

immediately before the date

of         commencement                                   of

section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

(14), (17) and (18) of the Financial

Services and Markets Act 2022;

(f) a prohibition order made under

section 101A(1) of the Securities

and Futures Act 2001 as in force

immediately before the date

of         commencement                                   of

section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

(14), (17) and (18) of the Financial

Services and Markets Act 2022, and

as continued by section 220(3) of the

Financial Services and Markets

Act 2022;

(g) a prohibition order made under

section 123ZZC(1) of the Securities

and Futures Act 2001 as in force

immediately before the date

of         commencement                                   of

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
356  NO. 18 OF 2022

     section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to
     (14), (17) and (18) of the Financial
     Services and Markets Act 2022;

     (h) a prohibition order made under

     section 123ZZC(1) of the Securities

     and Futures Act 2001 as in force

     immediately before the date

     of  commencement                                          of

     section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

     (14), (17) and (18) of the Financial

     Services and Markets Act 2022, and

     as continued by section 220(5) of the

     Financial Services and Markets

     Act 2022; or

     (i) a prohibition order made under
         section 7(1) of the Financial
         Services and Markets Act 2022;”.

 (2) Section 65 of the Insurance Act 1966 is amended by deleting the
words “, 73 and 74” in subsection (3) and in the section heading and
substituting in each case the words “and 73”.

(3) Section 74 of the Insurance Act 1966 is repealed.

 (4) Section 93(1) of the Insurance Act 1966 is amended by
inserting, immediately after the words “section 74” in
paragraph (c), the words “as in force immediately before the date
of commencement of section 204(1) to (4) of the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2022 or as continued by section 218(2) of that Act”.

 (5) Section 100(6) of the Insurance Act 1966 is amended by
deleting the words “section 152 of the Monetary Authority of
Singapore Act 1970” in paragraph (a) and substituting the words
“section 17 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022”.

 (6) Section 109 of the Insurance Act 1966 is amended by inserting,
immediately after paragraph (c) of the definition of “prescribed
written law”, the following paragraph:

     “(ca) Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;”.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            357

 (7) Section 110 of the Insurance Act 1966 is amended by deleting
the words “section 154(1) of the Monetary Authority of Singapore
Act 1970” and substituting the words “section 19(1) of the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2022”.

 (8) Section 120(1) of the Insurance Act 1966 is amended by
deleting the words “section 54 of the Monetary Authority of
Singapore Act 1970” and substituting the words “section 63 of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2022”.

 (9) Section 123(3) of the Insurance Act 1966 is amended by
deleting the words “(within the meaning of section 98 of the
Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970) from the licensed insurer
under section 103, 104, 105 or 106 of that Act” in paragraph (e) and
substituting the words “(within the meaning of section 107 of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2022) from the licensed insurer
under section 112, 113, 114 or 115 of that Act”.

Amendment of Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970

 205.—(1) Section 23(7A) of the Monetary Authority of Singapore
Act 1970 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “Part 4B” and substituting the words
            “Part 8 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022”;
            and

       (b) by deleting the words “Division 5B of that Part” in
            paragraph (a) and substituting the words “Division 10 of
            Part 8 of that Act”.

 (2) The Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970 is amended —

       (a) by repealing sections 27 to 29;

       (b) by repealing Part 4A (sections 31 to 48);

       (c) by repealing Part 4B (sections 49 to 126);

       (d) by repealing Part 5C (sections 152 to 163); and

       (e) by repealing section 177.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
358  NO. 18 OF 2022

 (3) Section 29A of the Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970
is amended by inserting, immediately after subsection (4), the
following subsection:

       “(4A) The Authority may recover from the relevant
      participant the amount of any fees payable to the Authority
      under any rules made under subsection (4) as a civil debt due to
      the Authority.”.

 (4) Section 178 of the Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970 is
amended by deleting the words “Parts 4A, 5A and 5B and any
regulations made under section 27A, 27B, 28A, 41, 51, 144 or 151” in
subsections (1) and (2)(a) and substituting in each case the words
“Parts 5A and 5B and any regulations made under section 144 or
151”.

 (5) The Schedule to the Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970
is amended by inserting, immediately before item 13, the following
item:

   “12B. Financial Services and Markets Act 2022”.

Amendment of Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters
Act 2000

 206.—(1) Section 2(1) of the Mutual Assistance in Criminal
Matters Act 2000 is amended by deleting the definition of
“financial institution” and substituting the following definition:

     “ “financial institution” has the meaning given by section 2 of
          the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;”.

 (2) The Second Schedule to the Mutual Assistance in Criminal
Matters Act 2000 is amended —

     (a) by inserting, immediately after item 105, the following

     heading and item:

     “                          .

        Financial Services and

     Markets Act 2022 —

     Offence included with

     effect from the date of

     commencement of

     section 206 of the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            359

Financial Services and  Failure or refusal to
Markets Act 2022

 105A. Section 15(5)

                        comply with direction, or

                        contravention of

                        regulations, issued or

                        made to discharge

                        Government’s

                        international obligations,

                        etc.                              ”; and

(b) by inserting, immediately after the words
     “Section 27A(5)” in item 171, the words “(as in force
     immediately before the date of commencement of
     section 206 of the Financial Services and Markets
     Act 2022)”.

Amendment of Payment Services Act 2019

 207.—(1) Section 2(1) of the Payment Services Act 2019 is
amended by inserting, immediately after the definition of “place of
business”, the following definition:

      “ “prohibition order” means —

                    (a) a prohibition order made under section 68(1) of
                         the Financial Advisers Act 2001 as in force
                         immediately before the date of commencement
                         of section 200(1)(b) and (2) to (7) of the
                         Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

                    (b) a prohibition order made under section 68(1) of
                         the Financial Advisers Act 2001 as in force
                         immediately before the date of commencement
                         of section 200(1)(b) and (2) to (7) of the
                         Financial Services and Markets Act 2022, and
                         as continued by section 217(2) of the Financial
                         Services and Markets Act 2022;

                    (c) an order made under section 74(1) of the
                         Insurance Act 1966 as in force immediately
                         before the date of commencement of

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
360  NO. 18 OF 2022

                       section 204(1) to (4) of the Financial Services
                       and Markets Act 2022;

                  (d) an order made under section 74(1) of the
                       Insurance Act 1966 as in force immediately
                       before the date of commencement of
                       section 204(1) to (4) of the Financial Services
                       and Markets Act 2022, and as continued by
                       section 218(2) of the Financial Services and
                       Markets Act 2022;

                  (e) a prohibition order made under section 101A(1)
                       of the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in
                       force immediately before the date
                       of commencement of section 209(1)(a), (c)
                       and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and (18) of the
                       Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

                   (f) a prohibition order made under section 101A(1)
                       of the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in
                       force immediately before the date
                       of commencement of section 209(1)(a), (c)
                       and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and (18) of the
                       Financial Services and Markets Act 2022, and
                       as continued by section 220(3) of the Financial
                       Services and Markets Act 2022; or

                  (g) a prohibition order made under section 7(1) of
                       the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;”.

(2) Section 11(2) of the Payment Services Act 2019 is amended —

      (a) by deleting the words “, or continues to fail,” in
           paragraph (d);

      (b) by deleting the word “or” at the end of paragraph (k)(ii);
           and

      (c) by deleting the full-stop at the end of paragraph (l) and
           substituting the word “; or”, and by inserting immediately
           thereafter the following paragraph:

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            361

                        “(m) the licensee has failed, or continues to fail,
                               to comply with any written notice issued by
                               the Authority under the Financial Services
                               and Markets Act 2022.”.

 (3) The Payment Services Act 2019 is amended by deleting the
words “under section 68 of the Financial Advisers Act 2001,
section 74 of the Insurance Act 1966 or section 101A of the
Securities and Futures Act 2001” in the following provisions:

  Section 34(6)(e)

  Section 35(2)(e)

  Section 65(6)(e)

  Section 66(2)(e).

 (4) Section 73(11) of the Payment Services Act 2019 is amended by
inserting, immediately after paragraph (f), the following paragraph:

           “(fa) Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;”.

 (5) Section 84 of the Payment Services Act 2019 is amended by
inserting, immediately after paragraph (d) of the definition of
“prescribed written law”, the following paragraph:

          “(da) Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;”.

Amendment of Precious Stones and Precious Metals
(Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing)
Act 2019

 208. Section 2 of the Precious Stones and Precious Metals
(Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing)
Act 2019 is amended by deleting the definition of “financial
institution” and substituting the following definition:

      “ “financial institution” has the meaning given by section 2 of
           the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;”.

Amendment of Securities and Futures Act 2001

 209.—(1) Section 2(1) of the Securities and Futures Act 2001 is
amended —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
362  NO. 18 OF 2022

     (a) by inserting, immediately after the definition of
          “franchise”, the following definition:

                “ “FSMA prohibition order” means a prohibition
                     order made under section 7(1) of the Financial
                     Services and Markets Act 2022;”;

     (b) by inserting, immediately after paragraph (c) of the
          definition of “prescribed written law”, the following
          paragraph:

                    “(ca) Financial Services and Markets
                            Act 2022;”;

     (c) by inserting, immediately after the definition of “regulated
          activity”, the following definition:

                “ “related Acts prohibition order” means —

                              (a) a prohibition order made under
                                   section 68(1) of the Financial
                                   Advisers Act 2001 as in force
                                   immediately before the date of
                                   commencement of section 200(1)(b)
                                   and (2) to (7) of the Financial
                                   Services and Markets Act 2022;

                              (b) a prohibition order made under
                                   section 68(1) of the Financial
                                   Advisers Act 2001 as in force
                                   immediately before the date of
                                   commencement of section 200(1)(b)
                                   and (2) to (7) of the Financial
                                   Services and Markets Act 2022, and
                                   as continued by section 217(2) of the
                                   Financial Services and Markets
                                   Act 2022;

                              (c) an order made under section 74(1) of
                                   the Insurance Act 1966 as in force
                                   immediately before the date of
                                   commencement of section 204(1) to

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            363

(4) of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2022; or

(d) an order made under section 74(1) of
     the Insurance Act 1966 as in force
     immediately before the date of
     commencement of section 204(1) to
     (4) of the Financial Services and
     Markets Act 2022, and as continued
     by section 218(2) of the Financial
     Services and Markets Act 2022;”; and

(d) by inserting, immediately after the definition of
     “responsible person”, the following definitions:

“ “section 101A prohibition order” means —

(a) a prohibition order made under

section 101A as in force

immediately before the date

of         commencement                                   of

section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

(14), (17) and (18) of the Financial

Services and Markets Act 2022; or

(b) a prohibition order made under

section 101A as in force

immediately before the date

of         commencement                                   of

section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

(14), (17) and (18) of the Financial

Services and Markets Act 2022, and

as continued by section 220(3) of the

Financial Services and Markets

Act 2022;

“section 123ZZC prohibition order” means —

(a) a prohibition order made under

section 123ZZC as in force

immediately before the date

of         commencement                                   of

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
364                 NO. 18 OF 2022

                    section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to
                    (14), (17) and (18) of the Financial
                    Services and Markets Act 2022; or

                    (b) a prohibition order made under

                    section 123ZZC(1) as in force

                    immediately before the date

                    of  commencement                           of

                    section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

                    (14), (17) and (18) of the Financial

                    Services and Markets Act 2022, and

                    as continued by section 220(5) of the

                    Financial Services and Markets

                    Act 2022;”.

 (2) Section 4A(1) of the Securities and Futures Act 2001 is
amended by inserting, immediately after the words “the Finance
Companies Act 1967,” in paragraph (c)(xxiii), the words “the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2022,”.

 (3) The Securities and Futures Act 2001 is amended by deleting the
words “Division 2, 3, 4 or 4A of Part 4B of the Monetary Authority of
Singapore Act 1970” in the following provisions and substituting in
each case the words “Division 2, 4, 5 or 6 of Part 8 of the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2022”:

Section 14(1)(e)
Section 46H(1)(da)
Section 56(1)(da)
Section 81Z(1)(da)
Section 95(2)(ea)
Section 289(4A).

 (4) Section 85(2) of the Securities and Futures Act 2001 is amended
by deleting paragraph (d) and substituting the following paragraph:

            “(d) a section 101A prohibition order or an FSMA
                  prohibition order has been made against the holder
                  of a capital markets services licence.”.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            365

 (5) The Securities and Futures Act 2001 is amended by deleting the
words “a prohibition order under section 101A has been made by the
Authority” in the following provisions and substituting in each case
the words “a section 101A prohibition order or an FSMA prohibition
order has been made”:

  Section 86(4)(o) and (6)(d)

  Section 95(2)(h) and (5)(d)

  Section 96(4)(aa)

  Section 97B(2)(c)

  Section 99M(1)(p) and (10)(c).

 (6) The Securities and Futures Act 2001 is amended by deleting the
words “a prohibition order under section 68 of the Financial Advisers
Act 2001, section 74 of the Insurance Act 1966 or section 101A or
123ZZC” in section 97(1)(g) and substituting the words “a related
Acts prohibition order, a section 101A prohibition order, a
section 123ZZC prohibition order or an FSMA prohibition order”.

 (7) Section 99A(2) of the Securities and Futures Act 2001 is
amended —

       (a) by deleting sub‑paragraph (iii) of paragraph (a) and
            substituting the following sub‑paragraph:

                              “(iii) a section 101A prohibition order or
                                      an FSMA prohibition order has been
                                      made against it,”; and

       (b) by deleting sub‑paragraph (ia) of paragraph (b) and
            substituting the following sub‑paragraph:

                               “(ia) a section 101A prohibition order or
                                      an FSMA prohibition order has been
                                      made against the representative; or”.

 (8) Section 99D(4) of the Securities and Futures Act 2001 is
amended by deleting the words “or a prohibition order under
section 101A” in paragraph (c) and substituting the words “, or a
section 101A prohibition order or an FSMA prohibition order”.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
366  NO. 18 OF 2022

 (9) The Securities and Futures Act 2001 is amended by repealing
the following sections:

  Section 101A
  Section 101B
  Section 101C
  Section 101D
  Section 123ZZC
  Section 123ZZD
  Section 123ZZE
  Section 123ZZF.

 (10) The Securities and Futures Act 2001 is amended by deleting
the words “a prohibition order under section 123ZZC has been made
by the Authority” in the following provisions and substituting in each
case the words “a section 123ZZC prohibition order or an FSMA
prohibition order has been made”:

  Section 123F(6)(p) and (8)(d)
  Section 123J(1)(l) and (6)(e)
  Section 123N(1)(k) and (3)(e)
  Section 123X(6)(b)
  Section 123ZA(2)(c)
  Section 123ZE(5)(o) and (7)(d)
  Section 123ZG(1)(k) and (6)(e)
  Section 123ZT(6)(b)
  Section 123ZW(2)(c).

 (11) Section 123I(3) of the Securities and Futures Act 2001 is
amended by deleting paragraph (c) and substituting the following
paragraph:

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            367

            “(c) a section 123ZZC prohibition order or an FSMA
                  prohibition order has been made against the
                  authorised benchmark administrator.”.

 (12) Section 123M(3) of the Securities and Futures Act 2001 is
amended by deleting paragraph (c) and substituting the following
paragraph:

            “(c) a section 123ZZC prohibition order or an FSMA
                  prohibition order has been made against the exempt
                  benchmark administrator.”.

 (13) The Securities and Futures Act 2001 is amended by deleting
the words “a prohibition order under section 68 of the Financial
Advisers Act 2001, section 74 of the Insurance Act 1966, or
section 101A or 123ZZC” in section 123Y(1)(g) and substituting the
words “a related Acts prohibition order, a section 101A prohibition
order, a section 123ZZC prohibition order or an FSMA prohibition
order”.

 (14) The Securities and Futures Act 2001 is amended by deleting
the words “a prohibition order under section 68 of the Financial
Advisers Act 2001, section 74 of the Insurance Act 1966,
section 101A or 123ZZC” in the following provisions and
substituting in each case the words “a related Acts prohibition
order, a section 101A prohibition order, a section 123ZZC prohibition
order or an FSMA prohibition order”:

  Section 123ZU(1)(g)

  Section 292A(1)(g).

 (15) Section 150B of the Securities and Futures Act 2001 is
amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “section 152 of the Monetary
            Authority of Singapore Act 1970” in subsection (4A)(a)
            and substituting the words “section 17 of the Financial
            Services and Markets Act 2022”; and

       (b) by inserting, immediately after the words “Monetary
            Authority of Singapore Act 1970” in subsection (5), the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
368  NO. 18 OF 2022

            words “or any of the written laws set out in the Schedule to
            that Act”.

 (16) Section 169A of the Securities and Futures Act 2001 is
amended by deleting the words “section 154(1) of the Monetary
Authority of Singapore Act 1970” and substituting the words
“section 19(1) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022”.

 (17) Section 317 of the Securities and Futures Act 2001 is
amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “101A(7) and (8),” in subsection (1);
            and

       (b) by inserting, immediately after the words “section 101A(7)
            and (8)” in subsection (2)(a), the words “as in force
            immediately before the date of commencement of
            section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and (18)
            of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022”.

 (18) Section 322(2) of the Securities and Futures Act 2001 is
amended by deleting the words “prohibition order” in paragraph (b)
and substituting the words “section 101A prohibition order or a
section 123ZZC prohibition order”.

Amendment of Trust Companies Act 2005

 210.—(1) Section 10(2) of the Trust Companies Act 2005 is
amended by deleting the words “Division 2, 3, 4 or 4A of Part 4B of
the Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970” in paragraph (e) and
substituting the words “Division 2, 4, 5 or 6 of Part 8 of the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2022”.

 (2) Section 47(6) of the Trust Companies Act 2005 is amended by
deleting the words “section 152 of the Monetary Authority of
Singapore Act 1970” in paragraph (a) and substituting the words
“section 17 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022”.

Amendment of United Nations Act 2001

 211. Section 2(2) of the United Nations Act 2001 is amended by
deleting the words “directions issued or regulations made by the
Monetary Authority of Singapore under section 27A of the Monetary

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            369

Authority of Singapore Act 1970” and substituting the words
“directions issued by the Monetary Authority of Singapore under
section 15 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022, or
regulations made by the Monetary Authority of Singapore under
section 192 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022 for the
purposes of section 15 of that Act”.

Amendment of Variable Capital Companies Act 2018

 212.—(1) Section 2(1) of the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018
is amended —

(a) by inserting, immediately after the definition of “financial
     year”, the following definition:

“ “FSMA 2022” means the Financial Services and
     Markets Act 2022;”; and

(b) by inserting, immediately after the definition of “profit and
     loss account”, the following definition:

“ “prohibition order” means —

(a) a prohibition order made under

section 101A(1) of the Securities

and Futures Act 2001 as in force

immediately before the date

of  commencement                                          of

section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

(14), (17) and (18) of the

FSMA 2022;

(b) a prohibition order made under

section 101A(1) of the Securities

and Futures Act 2001 as in force

immediately before the date

of  commencement                                          of

section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to

(14), (17) and (18) of the

FSMA 2022, and as continued by

section 220(3) of the FSMA 2022; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
370  NO. 18 OF 2022

                                (c) a prohibition order made under
                                     section 7(1) of the FSMA 2022;”.

 (2) Section 58 of the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018 is
amended by deleting the words “under section 101A(1) of the
Securities and Futures Act 2001” in subsections (1)(e) and (4)(f).

 (3) Section 83(6) of the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018 is
amended by deleting the words “section 27A of the MAS Act” and
substituting the words “section 192 of the FSMA 2022 for the
purposes of section 15 of that Act”.

 (4) Section 84(5) of the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018 is
amended by deleting the words “section 27B of the MAS Act” and
substituting the words “section 192 of the FSMA 2022 for the
purposes of section 16 of that Act”.

 (5) Section 85 of the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018 is
amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “section 152(1) of the MAS Act” in
            subsections (6) and (9) and substituting in each case the
            words “section 17(1) of the FSMA 2022”;

       (b) by deleting the words “section 27F(1) of the MAS Act” in
            subsection (7)(a) and substituting the words
            “section 172(1) of the FSMA 2022”;

       (c) by deleting the words “section 155(1), 157(1) or 160 of the
            MAS Act” in subsection (7)(b) and substituting the words
            “section 20(1), 22(1) or 25 of the FSMA 2022”;

       (d) by deleting the words “Section 27D of the MAS Act” in
            subsection (8) and substituting the words “Section 170 of
            the FSMA 2022”;

       (e) by deleting the words “section 27C(1)” in subsections (8)
            and (11) and substituting in each case the words
            “section 169(1)”;

        (f) by deleting the words “section 27D of the MAS Act” in
            subsection (9) and substituting the words “section 170 of
            the FSMA 2022”;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            371

       (g) by deleting the words “Section 27E of the MAS Act” in
            subsection (10) and substituting the words “Section 171 of
            the FSMA 2022”;

       (h) by deleting the words “Section 27F of the MAS Act” in
            subsection (11) and substituting the words “Section 172 of
            the FSMA 2022”;

        (i) by deleting the words “section 27F(1) of the MAS Act” in
            subsection (11)(a) and (b) and substituting in each case the
            words “section 172(1) of the FSMA 2022”;

        (j) by deleting the words “section 152(1)” in
            subsection (11)(a), (b) and (c) and substituting in each
            case the words “section 17(1)”; and

       (k) by deleting the words “section 27F(2) of the MAS Act” in
            subsection (11)(c) and substituting the words
            “section 172(2) of the FSMA 2022”.

 (6) Section 86 of the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018 is
amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “section 152 of the MAS Act” in the
            definitions of “AML/CFT authority”, “supervision” and
            “supervisory action” and “AML/CFT requirement”,
            “applicable offence”, “domestic authority”, “employee”,
            “enforcement action”, “foreign country”, “information”,
            “investigation” and “public authority” in subsection (1)
            and substituting in each case the words “section 17 of the
            FSMA 2022”;

       (b) by deleting the words “section 152 of the MAS Act” in
            paragraph (c) of the definition of “corresponding
            authority” in subsection (1) and substituting the words
            “section 17 of the FSMA 2022”;

       (c) by deleting the words “section 152 of the MAS Act” in the
            definition of “foreign financial institution” in
            subsection (1) and substituting the words “section 17 of
            the FSMA 2022”; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
372  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (d) by deleting the words “section 152 of the MAS Act” in
            subsection (3) and substituting the words “section 17 of the
            FSMA 2022”.

 (7) Section 88 of the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018 is
amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “Division 2 of Part 5C of the MAS
            Act” and substituting the words “Subdivision (2) of
            Division 2 of Part 4 of the FSMA 2022”;

       (b) by deleting the words “section 152” and substituting the
            words “section 17”;

       (c) by deleting the words “that Division” and substituting the
            words “that subdivision”;

       (d) by deleting paragraph (a);

       (e) by deleting the words “section 154(1)(g)(ii) of the MAS
            Act” in paragraph (b) and substituting the words
            “section 19(1)(g)(ii) of the FSMA 2022”;

        (f) by deleting paragraph (c) and substituting the following
            paragraph:

                        “(c) the reference in section 19(3)(a) of the
                               FSMA 2022 to any direction issued under
                               section 15 or 16 of that Act, or to any
                               regulations made under section 192 of that
                               Act for the purposes of section 15 or 16 of
                               that Act (as the case may be), is to a
                               direction or regulation issued or made
                               under section 83 or 84, as the case may
                               be;”;

       (g) by deleting the words “section 155 of the MAS Act” in
            paragraph (d) and substituting the words “section 20 of the
            FSMA 2022”;

       (h) by deleting the words “section 152(1)” in paragraph (d)
            and substituting the words “section 17(1)”; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            373

        (i) by deleting the words “section 155(2)(a) of the MAS Act”
            in paragraphs (e) and (f) and substituting in each case the
            words “section 20(2)(a) of the FSMA 2022”.

 (8) Section 89 of the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018 is
amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “Division 3 of Part 5C of the MAS
            Act” and substituting the words “Subdivision (3) of
            Division 2 of Part 4 of the FSMA 2022”;

       (b) by deleting the words “that Division” and substituting the
            words “that subdivision”;

       (c) by deleting paragraph (a);

       (d) by deleting the words “section 157 of the MAS Act” in
            paragraph (b) and substituting the words “section 22 of the
            FSMA 2022”;

       (e) by deleting the words “section 152(1)” in paragraph (b)
            and substituting the words “section 17(1)”; and

        (f) by deleting the words “section 157(2) of the MAS Act” in
            paragraphs (c) and (d) and substituting in each case the
            words “section 22(2) of the FSMA 2022”.

 (9) Section 90 of the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018 is
amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “Division 4 of Part 5C of the MAS
            Act” in subsection (1) and substituting the words
            “Subdivision (4) of Division 2 of Part 4 of the
            FSMA 2022”;

       (b) by deleting the words “section 160 of the MAS Act” in
            subsection (2) and substituting the words “section 25 of the
            FSMA 2022”; and

       (c) by deleting the words “section 152(1) of the MAS Act” in
            subsection (2) and substituting the words “section 17(1) of
            the FSMA 2022”.

 (10) Section 91 of the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018 is
amended —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
374  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (a) by deleting the words “Sections 161 and 162 of the MAS
            Act” in subsection (1) and substituting the words
            “Sections 26 and 27 of the FSMA 2022”;

       (b) by deleting the words “section 152 of the MAS Act” in
            subsection (1) and substituting the words “section 17 of the
            FSMA 2022”;

       (c) by deleting the words “section 161(5) of the MAS Act” in
            subsection (1)(a) and substituting the words “section 26(5)
            of the FSMA 2022”;

       (d) by deleting the words “section 162(3) of the MAS Act” in
            subsection (1)(b) and substituting the words “section 27(3)
            of the FSMA 2022”;

       (e) by deleting the words “sections 161 and 162 of the MAS
            Act” in subsection (1)(c) and substituting the words
            “sections 26 and 27 of the FSMA 2022”;

        (f) by deleting the words “Section 163 of the MAS Act” in
            subsection (2) and substituting the words “Section 28 of
            the FSMA 2022”; and

       (g) by deleting the words “section 161 of the MAS Act”
            wherever they appear in subsection (2) and substituting in
            each case the words “section 26 of the FSMA 2022”.

 (11) Section 92 of the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018 is
amended —

       (a) by deleting subsection (1) and substituting the following
            subsection:

                    “(1) Section 174 (except subsection (7)) and
                  section 175 (except subsection (7)) of the
                  FSMA 2022 apply in relation to an offence
                  committed under this Part as they apply in relation
                  to an offence committed under the FSMA 2022.”; and

       (b) by deleting the words “section 28B of the MAS Act” in
            subsection (2) and substituting the words “sections 174 and
            175 of the FSMA 2022”.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            375

 (12) Section 95 of the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018 is
amended by deleting subsection (5).

Amendment of Securities and Futures (Amendment) Act 2017

 213.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), section 203 of the Securities
and Futures (Amendment) Act 2017 is repealed.

 (2) Subsection (1) only applies if section 203 of the Securities and
Futures (Amendment) Act 2017 has not been brought into operation
before the date on which section 201(2) of this Act is brought into
operation.

Amendment of Financial Services and Markets Act 2022

 214. Section 6 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022 is
amended by deleting the definition of “digital payment token
instrument” and substituting the following definition:

      “ “digital payment token instrument” has the meaning given by
           section 2(1) of the Payment Services Act 2019;”.

                                   PART 14

          SAVINGS AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

Saving and transitional provisions in relation to amendments
to Banking Act 1970

 215. For the purposes of sections 20(1)(b) and (7) and
55ZA(1)(b)(ii) and (7)(b) of the Banking Act 1970, the exercise of
any power by the Minister under Division 2, 3, 4 or 4A of Part 4B of
the Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970 as in force
immediately before the date of commencement of section 193 of
this Act (called in this section the repeal date) —

       (a) in relation to a bank mentioned in section 20(1)(b) of the
            Banking Act 1970 as in force before the repeal date, is on
            and after the repeal date treated as the exercise of the power
            of the Minister under the corresponding provision of
            Division 2, 4, 5 or 6 of Part 8 of this Act in relation to that
            bank;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
376  NO. 18 OF 2022

       (b) in relation to a bank mentioned in section 20(7) of the
            Banking Act 1970 as in force before the repeal date, is on
            and after the repeal date treated as the exercise of the power
            of the Minister under the corresponding provision of
            Division 2, 4, 5 or 6 of Part 8 of this Act in relation to that
            bank;

       (c) in relation to a merchant bank mentioned in
            section 55ZA(1)(b)(ii) of the Banking Act 1970 as in
            force before the repeal date, is on and after the repeal date
            treated as the exercise of the power of the Minister under
            the corresponding provision of Division 2, 4, 5 or 6 of
            Part 8 of this Act in relation to that merchant bank; and

       (d) in relation to a merchant bank mentioned in
            section 55ZA(7)(b) of the Banking Act 1970 as in force
            before the repeal date, is on and after the repeal date treated
            as the exercise of the power of the Minister under the
            corresponding provision of Division 2, 4, 5 or 6 of Part 8 of
            this Act in relation to that merchant bank.

Saving and transitional provisions in relation to amendments
to Finance Companies Act 1967

 216. For the purposes of section 15(1)(c)(ii) of the Finance
Companies Act 1967, the exercise of any power by the Minister
under Division 2, 3, 4 or 4A of Part 4B of the Monetary Authority of
Singapore Act 1970 as in force immediately before the date of
commencement of section 199 of this Act (called in this section the
repeal date) in relation to a finance company mentioned in
section 15(1)(c)(ii) of the Finance Companies Act 1967 as in force
before the repeal date, is on and after the repeal date treated as the
exercise of the power of the Minister under the corresponding
provision of Division 2, 4, 5 or 6 of Part 8 of this Act in relation to that
finance company.

Saving and transitional provisions in relation to amendments
to Financial Advisers Act 2001

 217.—(1) Any prohibition order made under section 68(1) of the
Financial Advisers Act 2001 as in force immediately before the date

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            377

of commencement of section 200(1)(b) and (2) to (7) of this Act
(called in this section the repeal date) and which was in force
immediately before the repeal date continues in force until the
prohibition order expires or is revoked and sections 68 to 71,
section 77 and Part 9 (“Appeals”), of the Financial Advisers Act 2001
in force immediately before the repeal date continue to apply to that
prohibition order as if section 200(1)(b) and (2) to (7) of this Act had
not been enacted.

 (2) Where —

       (a) the Authority had under section 68(3) of the Financial
            Advisers Act 2001 as in force immediately before the
            repeal date given a person an opportunity to be heard
            against the making of a proposed prohibition order under
            section 68(1) of that Act as in force immediately before the
            repeal date; and

       (b) the Authority had not before the repeal date —

               (i) made the prohibition order against the person under
                   section 68(1) of the Financial Advisers Act 2001; or

              (ii) informed the person that the Authority would not be
                   making the prohibition order against the person
                   under section 68(1) of the Financial Advisers
                   Act 2001,

then —

       (c) the Authority may make the prohibition order against the
            person under section 68(1) of the Financial Advisers
            Act 2001 as in force immediately before the repeal date;
            and

       (d) sections 68 to 71, section 77 and Part 9 (“Appeals”), of the
            Financial Advisers Act 2001 as in force immediately
            before the repeal date continue to apply to the prohibition
            order,

as if section 200(1)(b) and (2) to (7) of this Act had not been enacted.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
378  NO. 18 OF 2022

Saving and transitional provisions in relation to amendments
to Insurance Act 1966

 218.—(1) Any order made under section 74(1) of the Insurance
Act 1966 as in force immediately before the date of commencement
of section 204(1) to (4) of this Act (called in this section the repeal
date) and which was in force immediately before the repeal date
continues in force until the order expires or is revoked and section 74
and Part 3B (“Appeals”) of the Insurance Act 1966 in force before the
repeal date continue to apply to that order as if section 204(1) to (4) of
this Act had not been enacted.

 (2) Where —

       (a) the Authority had under section 74(2) of the Insurance
            Act 1966 as in force immediately before the repeal date
            given a person written notice of the Authority’s intention to
            make an order under section 74(1) of the Insurance
            Act 1966 as in force immediately before the repeal date;

       (b) the Authority had in the notice called upon the person to
            show cause why the person should not be prohibited from
            the activities mentioned in section 74(2)(b) of the
            Insurance Act 1966 as in force immediately before the
            repeal date; and

       (c) the Authority had not before the repeal date —

               (i) made the order against the person under
                   section 74(1) of the Insurance Act 1966 as in force
                   before the repeal date; or

              (ii) informed the person that the Authority would not be
                   making the order against the person under
                   section 74(1) of the Insurance Act 1966 as in force
                   before the repeal date,

then —

       (d) the Authority may make the order against the person under
            section 74(1) of the Insurance Act 1966 as in force
            immediately before the repeal date; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            379

       (e) section 74 and Part 3B (“Appeals”) of the Insurance
            Act 1966 as in force immediately before the repeal date
            continue to apply to the order,

as if section 204(1) to (4) of this Act had not been enacted.

Saving and transitional provisions in relation to amendments
to Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970

 219. So far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act —

       (a) any request for information by, recommendation made or
            direction of, the Authority under section 27(1) of the
            Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970 as in force
            immediately before the date of commencement of
            section 205(2)(a) of this Act and which was in force
            immediately before that date continues in force as if made
            under section 3(1) of this Act;

       (b) any direction of the Authority under section 27(3) of the
            Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970 as in force
            immediately before the commencement of
            section 205(2)(a) of this Act and which was in force
            immediately before that date continues in force as if made
            under section 3(3) of this Act;

       (c) any direction issued by the Authority under
            section 27A(1)(a) of the Monetary Authority of
            Singapore Act 1970 as in force immediately before the
            date of commencement of section 205(2)(a) of this Act and
            which was in force immediately before that date continues
            in force as if made under section 15(1)(a) of this Act;

       (d) any regulations made by the Authority under
            section 27A(1)(b) of the Monetary Authority of
            Singapore Act 1970 as in force immediately before the
            date of commencement of section 205(2)(a) of this Act and
            which were in force immediately before that date continue
            in force as if made under section 192 of this Act until they
            are repealed by regulations made under section 192 of this
            Act;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
380  NO. 18 OF 2022

     (e) any direction issued by the Authority under section 27B(1)
          of the Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970 as in
          force immediately before the date of commencement of
          section 205(2)(a) of this Act and which was in force
          immediately before that date continues in force as if made
          under section 16(1) of this Act;

     (f) any regulations made by the Authority under
          section 27B(1) of the Monetary Authority of Singapore
          Act 1970 as in force immediately before the date of
          commencement of section 205(2)(a) of this Act and which
          were in force immediately before that date continue in
          force as if made under section 192 of this Act until they are
          repealed by regulations made under section 192 of this Act;

     (g) any inspection carried out or being carried out by the
          Authority under section 27C(1) of the Monetary Authority
          of Singapore Act 1970 as in force immediately before the
          date of commencement of section 205(2)(a) of this Act is
          treated as if the inspection were carried out or is being
          carried out under section 169(1) of this Act and the
          provisions of sections 169 and 170 of this Act apply to that
          inspection accordingly;

     (h) any obligation of confidentiality imposed in respect of a
          written report under section 27E of the Monetary Authority
          of Singapore Act 1970 as in force immediately before the
          date of commencement of section 205(2)(a) of this Act and
          which was in force immediately before that date continues
          as if the written report were a written report mentioned in
          section 171 of this Act;

     (i) any approval granted in respect of a written report under
          section 27E(2)(c), and any condition or restriction of
          approval imposed under section 27E(3), of the Monetary
          Authority of Singapore Act 1970 as in force immediately
          before the date of commencement of section 205(2)(a) of
          this Act and which were in force immediately before that
          date continue in force as if granted and imposed
          (respectively) under section 171(2)(c) or (3) of this Act;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            381

 (j) the power of the Authority or any person authorised by the
     Authority to transmit any information obtained by the
     Authority from an inspection under section 27F(1) of the
     Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970 as in force
     immediately before the date of commencement of
     section 205(2)(a) of this Act continues as if the
     information were information mentioned in
     section 172(1) of this Act;

(k) any approval granted by the Authority under section 28(1),
     and any condition of approval imposed under
     section 28(2)(c), of the Monetary Authority of Singapore
     Act 1970 as in force immediately before the date of
     commencement of section 205(2)(a) of this Act and which
     were in force immediately before that date continue in
     force as if granted and imposed (respectively) under
     section 4(1) and (2)(b) of this Act;

 (l) any direction issued to an approved financial institution or
     a class of approved financial institutions by the Authority
     under section 28(3) of the Monetary Authority of
     Singapore Act 1970 as in force immediately before the
     date of commencement of section 205(2)(a) of this Act and
     which was in force immediately before that date continues
     in force as if issued under section 4(3) of this Act to the
     approved financial institution or class of approved
     financial institutions;

(m) any guidelines issued and conditions imposed by the
     Authority under section 28(4) of the Monetary Authority
     of Singapore Act 1970 as in force immediately before the
     date of commencement of section 205(2)(a) of this Act and
     which were in force immediately before that date continue
     in force as if issued and imposed (respectively) under
     section 4(4) of this Act;

(n) any approval of a dispute resolution scheme under
     section 28A(1) of the Monetary Authority of Singapore
     Act 1970 as in force immediately before the date of
     commencement of section 205(2)(a) of this Act and which

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
382  NO. 18 OF 2022

          was in force immediately before that date continues and is
          deemed to be an approval under section 31(1) of this Act;

     (o) any regulations made by the Authority under
          section 28A(2) of the Monetary Authority of Singapore
          Act 1970 as in force immediately before the date of
          commencement of section 205(2)(a) of this Act and which
          were in force immediately before that date continue in
          force (to the extent that it is not inconsistent with Part 6 of
          this Act) as if made under section 192 of this Act until they
          are repealed by regulations made under section 192 of this
          Act;

     (p) any conditions or restrictions of registration, licence or
          approval mentioned in section 28A(4)(b) of the Monetary
          Authority of Singapore Act 1970 as in force immediately
          before the date of commencement of section 205(2)(a) of
          this Act that were imposed by the Authority before that
          date and in force immediately before that date, continue in
          force as if they were conditions or restrictions mentioned in
          section 36(3)(b) of this Act;

     (q) any requirement by the Authority to pay any fee under
          section 29 of the Monetary Authority of Singapore
          Act 1970 as in force immediately before the date of
          commencement of section 205(2)(a) of this Act and which
          was in force immediately before that date continues in
          force as if it were a requirement under section 5 of this Act;

     (r) where the Authority or the Minister (as the case may be)
          has exercised in relation to any person or matter any power
          under any provision of Part 4A of the Monetary Authority
          of Singapore Act 1970 as in force immediately before the
          date of commencement of section 205(2)(b) of this Act
          (called in this paragraph the repeal date), and the matter for
          which the power was exercised is still ongoing on or after
          the repeal date, the Authority or the Minister (as the case
          may be) is on and after the repeal date treated as having
          exercised the power in relation to that person or matter

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            383

     under the corresponding provision of Part 7 of this Act, and
     the provisions of Part 7 of this Act apply accordingly;

(s) any requirement of the Authority, appointment of statutory
     adviser by the Authority, assumption of control or
     management of the business of a relevant financial
     institution by the Authority, or appointment of a
     statutory manager by the Authority, made under
     section 33(2) of the Monetary Authority of Singapore
     Act 1970 and in force immediately before the date of
     commencement of section 205(2)(b) of this Act and which
     was in force immediately before that date is treated as if it
     were made under section 41(2) of this Act, and the
     provisions of Part 7 of this Act apply accordingly;

(t) in addition to paragraph (s), any person appointed by the
     Authority under section 13B of the Monetary Authority of
     Singapore Act 1970 in relation to the assumption of control
     or management of the business of a relevant financial
     institution by the Authority under section 33(2) of the
     Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970 as in force
     immediately before the date of commencement of
     section 205(2)(b) of this Act, and whose appointment as
     such was in force immediately before that date, is treated as
     a person appointed in relation to that matter under
     section 179 of this Act;

(u) where the Authority or the Minister (as the case may be)
     has exercised in relation to any person or matter any power
     under any provision of Part 4B of the Monetary Authority
     of Singapore Act 1970 as in force immediately before the
     date of commencement of section 205(2)(c) of this Act
     (called in this paragraph the repeal date), and the matter for
     which the power was exercised is still ongoing on or after
     the repeal date, the Authority or the Minister (as the case
     may be) is on and after the repeal date treated as having
     exercised the power in relation to that person or matter
     under the corresponding provision of Part 8 of this Act, and
     the provisions of Part 8 of this Act apply accordingly;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
384  NO. 18 OF 2022

     (v) any request by a foreign resolution authority for assistance
          mentioned in section 87(1) of the Monetary Authority of
          Singapore Act 1970 as in force immediately before the date
          of commencement of section 205(2)(c) of this Act and
          which had not been dealt with immediately before that
          date, is treated as made, and may be dealt with, under the
          corresponding provisions of Division 8 of Part 8 of this
          Act;

     (w) any request by a domestic authority for any material in
          relation to the resolution of a specified financial institution
          mentioned in section 90 of the Monetary Authority of
          Singapore Act 1970 as in force immediately before the date
          of commencement of section 205(2)(c) of this Act and
          which had not been dealt with immediately before that
          date, is treated as made, and may be dealt with, under the
          corresponding provisions of Division 8 of Part 8 of this
          Act;

     (x) where the Minister has established a resolution fund and
          appointed a trustee of the resolution fund under
          section 99(1) and (2), respectively, of the Monetary
          Authority of Singapore Act 1970 in force immediately
          before the date of commencement of section 205(2)(c) of
          this Act —

             (i) the resolution fund and the appointment of the trustee
                 of the resolution fund continue in force as if
                 established and appointed under section 108(1) and
                 (2) respectively of this Act; and

            (ii) any sum claimed by the trustee under section 103,
                 104, 105 or 106 of the Monetary Authority of
                 Singapore Act 1970 as in force immediately before
                 the date of commencement of section 205(2)(c) of
                 this Act is, on or after that date, treated as a sum
                 claimed by the trustee under section 112, 113, 114 or
                 115 of this Act;

     (y) any reference in any written law to a “resolution measure”
          as defined in section 98 of the Monetary Authority of

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            385

      Singapore Act 1970 as in force immediately before the date
      of commencement of section 205(2)(c) of this Act, is on
      and after that date taken to be a resolution measure as
      defined in section 107 of this Act;

 (z) any valuer appointed under section 115(1) of the Monetary
      Authority of Singapore Act 1970 as in force immediately
      before the date of commencement of section 205(2)(c) of
      this Act for a Division 5C FI, that is also a Division 11 FI
      under resolution within the meaning of section 121 of this
      Act because of the operation of paragraph (u), is on and
      after that date, treated as a valuer appointed under
      section 124 of this Act for the Division 11 FI; and any
      valuation conducted by the valuer before that date of that
      Division 5C FI is treated as a valuation conducted under
      section 124 of this Act;

(za) any order, direction or approval of a Court under any
      provision of Parts 4A and 4B of the Monetary Authority of
      Singapore Act 1970 as in force immediately before the date
      of commencement of section 205(2)(b) and (c) of this Act
      and which was in force immediately before that date
      continues as an order, direction or approval of the Court
      under the corresponding provision of Part 7 or 8 of this
      Act;

(zb) any regulations made by the Authority under Part 4A of the
      Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970 as in force
      immediately before the date of commencement of
      section 205(2)(b) of this Act and which were in force
      immediately before that date continue in force as if made
      under section 192 of this Act until they are repealed by
      regulations made under section 192 of this Act;

(zc) any regulations made by the Minister under Part 4B of the
      Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970 as in force
      immediately before the date of commencement of
      section 205(2)(c) of this Act and which were in force
      immediately before that date continue in force as if made

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
386  NO. 18 OF 2022

           under section 135 of this Act until they are repealed by
           regulations made under section 135 of this Act;

     (zd) any request for assistance under section 154 or 156 of the
           Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970 as in force
           immediately before the date of commencement of
           section 205(2)(d) of this Act and which had not been
           dealt with immediately before that date is treated to be
           made, and may be dealt with, under the corresponding
           provisions of Division 2 of Part 4 of this Act;

     (ze) any request to provide information under section 155(2)(b)
           of the Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970 as in
           force immediately before the date of commencement of
           section 205(2)(d) of this Act and which had not been dealt
           with immediately before that date is treated to be made
           under section 20(2)(b) of this Act and may be dealt with
           accordingly;

     (zf) any —

             (i) order under section 155(2)(a) or 157(2); or

             (ii) requirement under section 155(5) or 157(5),

     (zf) of the Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970 as in
           force immediately before the date of commencement of
           section 205(2)(d) of this Act and which was in force
           immediately before that date, continues in force as if
           ordered or required under the corresponding provisions of
           Division 2 of Part 4 of this Act;

     (zg) any inspection conducted or being conducted under
           section 161(1) of the Monetary Authority of Singapore
           Act 1970 as in force immediately before the date of
           commencement of section 205(2)(d) of this Act is treated
           as if the inspection were conducted or is being conducted
           under section 26(1) of this Act, and the provisions of
           sections 26, 27 and 28 of this Act apply accordingly;

     (zh) any approval given under section 161(1) of the Monetary
           Authority of Singapore Act 1970 as in force immediately
           before the date of commencement of section 205(2)(d) of

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            387

            this Act for an inspection that has yet to commence on that
            date, and any condition imposed by the Authority under
            section 161(3) or (6) of the Monetary Authority of
            Singapore Act 1970 as in force immediately before that
            date, being an approval and a condition that were in force
            immediately before that date, are treated as given and
            imposed under section 26(1), (3) and (6) respectively of
            this Act, and the provisions of sections 26, 27 and 28 of this
            Act apply accordingly; and

       (zi) any obligation of confidentiality imposed in respect of a
            written report under section 163 of the Monetary Authority
            of Singapore Act 1970 as in force immediately before the
            date of commencement of section 205(2)(d) of this Act and
            which was in force immediately before that date continues
            as if the written report were a written report mentioned in
            section 28 of this Act.

Saving and transitional provisions in relation to amendments
to Securities and Futures Act 2001

 220.—(1) For the purposes of sections 14(1)(e), 46H(1)(da),
56(1)(da), 81Z(1)(da), 95(2)(ea) and 289(4A) of the Securities and
Futures Act 2001, the exercise by the Minister of any power under
Division 2, 3, 4 or 4A of Part 4B of the Monetary Authority of
Singapore Act 1970 as in force immediately before the date of
commencement of section 209(3) of this Act (called in this subsection
the repeal date) —

       (a) in relation to a corporation mentioned in section 14(1)(e) of
            the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force before the
            repeal date, is on and after the repeal date treated as the
            exercise of the power of the Minister under the
            corresponding provision of Division 2, 4, 5 or 6 of
            Part 8 of this Act in relation to that corporation;

       (b) in relation to a corporation mentioned in
            section 46H(1)(da) of the Securities and Futures
            Act 2001 as in force before the repeal date, is on and
            after the repeal date treated as the exercise of the power of
            the Minister under the corresponding provision of

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
388  NO. 18 OF 2022

            Division 2, 4, 5 or 6 of Part 8 of this Act in relation to that
            corporation;

       (c) in relation to a corporation mentioned in section 56(1)(da)
            of the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force before
            the repeal date, is on and after the repeal date treated as the
            exercise of the power of the Minister under the
            corresponding provision of Division 2, 4, 5 or 6 of
            Part 8 of this Act in relation to that corporation;

       (d) in relation to a corporation mentioned in
            section 81Z(1)(da) of the Securities and Futures
            Act 2001 as in force before the repeal date, is on and
            after the repeal date treated as the exercise of the power of
            the Minister under the corresponding provision of
            Division 2, 4, 5 or 6 of Part 8 of this Act in relation to
            that corporation;

       (e) in relation to a holder of a capital markets services licence
            mentioned in section 95(2)(ea) of the Securities and
            Futures Act 2001 as in force before the repeal date, is on
            and after the repeal date treated as the exercise of the power
            of the Minister under the corresponding provision of
            Division 2, 4, 5 or 6 of Part 8 of this Act in relation to that
            holder; and

        (f) in relation to an approved trustee mentioned in
            section 289(4A) of the Securities and Futures Act 2001
            as in force before the repeal date, is on and after the repeal
            date treated as the exercise of the power of the Minister
            under the corresponding provision of Division 2, 4, 5 or 6
            of Part 8 of this Act in relation to that approved trustee.

 (2) Any prohibition order made under section 101A(1) of the
Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force immediately before the
date of commencement of section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to (14),
(17) and (18) (called in this subsection the repeal date) and which was
in force immediately before the repeal date, continues in force until
the prohibition order expires or is revoked and sections 101A to
101D, section 322 and Part 14 (“Appeals”), of the Securities and
Futures Act 2001 as in force immediately before the repeal date

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            389

continue to apply to that prohibition order as if section 209(1)(a), (c)
and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and (18) of this Act had not been enacted.

 (3) Where —

       (a) the Authority had under section 101A(4) of the Securities
            and Futures Act 2001 as in force immediately before the
            date of commencement of section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d),
            (4) to (14), (17) and (18) (called in this subsection the
            repeal date) given a person an opportunity to be heard
            against the making of a proposed prohibition order under
            section 101A(1) of the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as
            in force immediately before the repeal date; and

       (b) the Authority had not before the repeal date —

               (i) made the prohibition order against the person under
                   section 101A(1) of the Securities and Futures
                   Act 2001; or

              (ii) informed the person that the Authority would not be
                   making the prohibition order against the person
                   under section 101A(1) of the Securities and Futures
                   Act 2001,

then —

       (c) the Authority may make the prohibition order against the
            person under section 101A(1) of the Securities and Futures
            Act 2001 as in force immediately before the repeal date;
            and

       (d) sections 101A to 101D, section 322 and Part 14
            (“Appeals”), of the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in
            force immediately before the repeal date continue to apply
            to the prohibition order,

as if section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and (18) of this
Act had not been enacted.

 (4) Any prohibition order made under section 123ZZC(1) of the
Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force immediately before the
date of commencement of section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to (14),
(17) and (18) (called in this subsection the repeal date) and which was

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
390  NO. 18 OF 2022

in force immediately before the repeal date continues in force until
the order expires or is revoked and sections 123ZZC to 123ZZF,
section 322 and Part 14 (“Appeals”), of the Securities and Futures
Act 2001 as in force immediately before the repeal date continue to
apply to that prohibition order as if section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4)
to (14), (17) and (18) of this Act had not been enacted.

 (5) Where —

       (a) the Authority had under section 123ZZC(4) of the
            Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force immediately
            before the date of commencement of section 209(1)(a), (c)
            and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and (18) (called in this subsection
            the repeal date) given a person an opportunity to be heard
            against the making of a proposed prohibition order under
            section 123ZZC(1) of the Securities and Futures Act 2001
            as in force immediately before the repeal date; and

       (b) the Authority had not before the repeal date —

               (i) made the prohibition order under section 123ZZC(1)
                   of the Securities and Futures Act 2001; or

              (ii) informed the person that the Authority would not be
                   making the prohibition order against the person
                   under section 123ZZC(1) of the Securities and
                   Futures Act 2001,

then —

       (c) the Authority may make the prohibition order against the
            person under section 123ZZC(1) of the Securities and
            Futures Act 2001 as in force immediately before the repeal
            date; and

       (d) sections 123ZZC to 123ZZF, section 322 and Part 14
            (“Appeals”), of the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in
            force immediately before the repeal date continue to apply
            to the prohibition order,

as if section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and (18) of this
Act had not been enacted.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            391

Saving and transitional provisions in relation to amendments
to Trust Companies Act 2005

 221. For the purposes of section 10(2)(e) of the Trust Companies
Act 2005, the exercise of any power by the Minister under Division 2,
3, 4 or 4A of Part 4B of the Monetary Authority of Singapore
Act 1970 as in force immediately before the date of commencement
of section 210 (called in this section the repeal date) in relation to a
licensed trust company mentioned in section 10(2)(e) of the Trust
Companies Act 2005 as in force before the repeal date, is on and after
the repeal date treated as the exercise of the power of the Minister
under the corresponding provision of Division 2, 4, 5 or 6 of Part 8 of
this Act in relation to that licensed trust company.

Other saving and transitional provisions

 222. For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of any
provision of this Act, the Minister may, by regulations, prescribe such
additional provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent to
the enactment of that provision as the Minister may consider
necessary or expedient.

                             FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                      Sections 136(1) and 190(1)

                              DIGITAL TOKEN SERVICES

                                           PART 1

               SERVICES THAT ARE DIGITAL TOKEN SERVICES

 1. Except where Part 2 of this Schedule provides otherwise, each of the
following services is a digital token service for the purposes of this Part:

        (a) any service of dealing in digital tokens (other than any such service
             that the Authority may prescribe);

        (b) any service of facilitating the exchange of digital tokens (other than
             any such service that the Authority may prescribe);

        (c) any service of accepting (whether as principal or agent) digital tokens
             from one digital token account (whether in Singapore or elsewhere),
             for the purposes of transmitting, or arranging for the transmission of,
             the digital tokens to another digital token account (whether in
             Singapore or elsewhere);

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
392  NO. 18 OF 2022

                        FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

     (d) any service of arranging (whether as principal or agent) for the
          transmission of digital tokens from one digital token account (whether
          in Singapore or elsewhere) to another digital token account (whether in
          Singapore or elsewhere);

     (e) any service of inducing or attempting to induce any person to enter into
          or to offer to enter into any agreement for or with a view to buying or
          selling any digital tokens in exchange for any money or any other
          digital tokens (whether of the same or a different type);

     (f) any service of safeguarding a digital token, where the service provider
          has control over the digital token;

     (g) any service of carrying out for a customer an instruction relating to a
          digital token, where the service provider has control over the digital
          token;

     (h) any service of safeguarding a digital token instrument, where the
          service provider has control over one or more digital tokens associated
          with the digital token instrument;

     (i) any service of carrying out for a customer an instruction relating to one
          or more digital tokens associated with a digital token instrument,
          where the service provider has control over the digital token
          instrument;

     (j) any service relating to the sale or offer for sale of digital tokens which
          involves —

              (i) providing advice, either directly or through publications or
                   writings, and whether in electronic, print or other form, relating
                   to any digital tokens; or

             (ii) providing advice by issuing or promulgating research analyses
                   or research reports, whether in electronic, print or other form,
                   relating to any digital tokens.

                                           PART 2

           SERVICES THAT ARE NOT DIGITAL TOKEN SERVICES

 1. Despite Part 1 of this Schedule, the following services are not digital token
services for the purposes of this Part:

        (a) any service provided by any technical service provider that supports
             the provision of any digital token service, but that does not at any time
             enter into possession of any money or digital token under that digital
             token service, such as —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            393

                   FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

         (i) the service of processing and storing data;

        (ii) any information technology security, trust or privacy protection
              service;

        (iii) any data and entity authentication service;

        (iv) any information technology service;

         (v) the service of providing a communication network; and

        (vi) the service of providing and maintaining any terminal or device
              used for any digital token service;

(b) any digital token service that is provided, in respect of any central bank
     digital token, by any central bank or financial institution;

(c) any digital payment token service that is provided in respect of any
     limited purpose digital payment token.

                                          PART 3

                                   INTERPRETATION

1. In this Schedule, unless the context otherwise requires —

    “central bank digital token” means any digital token that is issued by a central
        bank, or by any entity authorised by a central bank to issue a digital token
        on behalf of the central bank;

    “currency” means currency notes and coins that are legal tender in Singapore
        or a country or territory other than Singapore;

    “dealing in”, in relation to any digital token, means the buying or selling of
        that digital token in exchange for any money or any other digital token
        (whether of the same or a different type), but does not include any of the
        following:

               (a) facilitating the exchange of digital tokens;

               (b) accepting any digital token as a means of payment for the
                    provision of goods or services;

               (c) using any digital token as a means of payment for the provision
                    of goods or services;

    “digital payment token”, “digital payment token service” and “digital token”
        have the meanings given by section 136(1);

    “digital token account” means any account, or any device or facility (whether
        in physical or electronic form), that contains digital tokens;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
394  NO. 18 OF 2022

                           FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

     “digital token exchange” —

               (a) means a place, or a facility (whether electronic or otherwise),
                    where —

                          (i) offers or invitations to buy or sell any digital token in
                               exchange for any money or any other digital token
                               (whether of the same or a different type), are regularly
                               made on a centralised basis;

                          (ii) those offers or invitations are intended, or may
                               reasonably be expected, to result (whether directly or
                               indirectly) in the acceptance of those offers or in the
                               making of offers to buy or sell digital tokens in
                               exchange for money or other digital tokens (whether of
                               the same or a different type), as the case may be; and

                         (iii) the person making any such offer or invitation, and the
                               person accepting that offer or making an offer in
                               response to that invitation, are different persons; but

               (b) does not include a place or facility (whether electronic or
                    otherwise) that is used exclusively by one person to do only
                    either or both of the following things:

                          (i) to make offers or invitations to buy or sell any digital
                               token in exchange for any money, or any digital token
                               (whether of the same or a different type);

                          (ii) to accept any offer to buy or sell any digital token in
                               exchange for any money, or any digital token (whether
                               of the same or a different type);

     “digital token instrument” means any password, code, cipher, cryptogram,
        private cryptographic key or other instrument that enables a person —

               (a) to control access to one or more digital tokens; or

               (b) to execute a transaction involving one or more digital tokens;

     “e-money”, “employee” and “entity” have the meanings given by
        section 136(1);

     “facilitating the exchange of digital tokens” means establishing or operating
        a digital token exchange, in a case where the person that establishes or
        operates that digital token exchange, for the purposes of an offer or
        invitation (made or to be made on that digital token exchange) to buy or
        sell any digital token in exchange for any money or any digital token
        (whether of the same or a different type), comes into possession of any

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            395

                      FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

   money or any digital token, whether at the time that offer or invitation is
   made or otherwise;

“financial institution” means any person that —

          (a) is a financial institution as defined in section 2; or

          (b) is licensed, approved, registered or regulated, or is exempt from
               being licensed, approved, registered or regulated, under any law
               administered by an authority in a foreign country (the functions
               of which correspond to the functions of the Authority in
               Singapore) to carry on any financial activity in that country;

“financial product” means any product or service that is provided by a
   financial institution;

“in‑game asset” means any digital representation of value that —

          (a) is purchased or otherwise acquired by a person (called in this
               definition the game player);

          (b) is not denominated in any currency;

          (c) is issued as part of an online game; and

          (d) is used by the game player to pay or exchange for virtual objects
               or services in the online game;

“limited purpose digital payment token” means any non‑monetary customer
   loyalty or reward point, any in‑game asset, or any similar digital
   representation of value that —

          (a) cannot be returned to its issuer, transferred or sold in exchange
               for money; and

          (b) may only be used —

                     (i) in the case of a non‑monetary customer loyalty or
                          reward point or a similar digital representation of
                          value — for the payment or part payment of, or in
                          exchange for, goods or services, or both, provided by
                          its issuer or any merchant specified by its issuer; or

                     (ii) in the case of an in‑game asset or a similar digital
                          representation of value — for the payment of, or in
                          exchange for, virtual objects or virtual services within
                          an online game, or any similar thing within, that is part
                          of, or in relation to, an online game;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
396  NO. 18 OF 2022

                            FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

      “merchant” means a person (other than an individual who is not required to
         be registered under the Business Names Registration Act 2014) who, in
         the course of the person’s business —

                (a) provides goods or services;

                (b) promotes the use or purchase of goods or services; or

                (c) receives, or is entitled to receive, any money or other
                     consideration for providing goods or services,

         and includes any employee or agent of the person;

      “money” has the meaning given by section 136(1);

      “non-monetary customer loyalty or reward point” means any digital
         representation of value, by whatever name called, that satisfies all of
         the following conditions:

                (a) it is not denominated in any currency;

                (b) it is issued as part of a scheme, the dominant purpose of which is
                     to promote the purchase of goods, or the use of services,
                     provided by its issuer or any merchant specified by its issuer;

                (c) it is issued to a person upon the purchase of goods, or the use of
                     services, provided by its issuer or any merchant specified by its
                     issuer;

                (d) it is used for the payment or part payment of, or in exchange for,
                     goods or services (or both) provided by its issuer or any
                     merchant specified by its issuer;

                (e) it is not part of a financial product.

 2. For the purposes of this Schedule, a person has control over a digital token
whether the person has control over the digital token solely or jointly with one or
more other persons.

                         SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                 Sections 137(5)(b) and 190(1)

                                EXCLUDED PERSONS
1. For the purpose of section 137(5)(b), the specified persons are —

       (a) any public statutory corporation established under any Act in
            Singapore;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            397

                        SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

       (b) any —

                (i) advocate and solicitor who has in force a practising certificate
                     or regulated foreign lawyer;

               (ii) licensed foreign law practice, Singapore law practice, Joint
                     Law Venture or Qualifying Foreign Law Practice, as defined in
                     section 2(1) of the Legal Profession Act 1966; or

               (iii) public accountant who is registered under the Accountants
                     Act 2004 or accounting corporation which is approved under
                     that Act,

       (b) whose carrying on of the business in providing digital token service is
            solely incidental to the practice of law or accounting, as the case may
            be;

       (c) the Official Assignee or Official Receiver in exercising his or her
            powers under the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
            or under any other written law;

       (d) the Public Trustee in exercising his or her powers under the Public
            Trustee Act 1915;

       (e) a person acting in relation to a company as its liquidator, provisional
            liquidator, receiver, receiver and manager or judicial manager;

       (f) a statutory manager appointed under section 61(2)(d) of the
            Moneylenders Act 2008;

       (g) a person acting in relation to a limited liability partnership as its
            liquidator, provisional liquidator, receiver or receiver and manager;

       (h) a person acting in relation to a partnership as its receiver or receiver
            and manager; and

       (i) a person acting in relation to a VCC as the liquidator or provisional
            liquidator of the VCC or any of its sub‑funds, or the receiver or the
            receiver and manager of the property of the VCC or any of its
            sub‑funds.

2. For the purpose of paragraph 1 —

    “advocate and solicitor”, “practising certificate” and “regulated foreign
        lawyer” have the meanings given by section 2(1) of the Legal Profession
        Act 1966;

    “Official Assignee” and “Official Receiver” have the meanings given by
        section 2(1) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
398                                NO. 18 OF 2022

                         SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

     “sub‑fund” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Variable Capital
        Companies Act 2018;

     “VCC” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Variable Capital
        Companies Act 2018.

                 THIRD SCHEDULE

                                                          Sections 28A(2)(d), 28K(2), (3), (4)
                                                                               and (5) and 190(1)

     DISCLOSURE OF SPECIFIED INFORMATION
                              PART 1

     FURTHER DISCLOSURE NOT PROHIBITED

     First column                                                 .  Second column

     Purpose for which specified                                                               Persons to whom specified
     information may be disclosed                                                            information may be disclosed
                                                                     Any police officer or public officer duly authorised under the specified
1. Disclosure is necessary for —                                  .  written law to carry out the investigation or prosecution or to receive
                                                                     the complaint or report, or any court
     (a) compliance with an order or request made under
          any specified written law to provide information,          All persons to whom the disclosure is required to be made under the
          for the purposes of an investigation or prosecution,       court order
          of an offence alleged or suspected to have been
          committed under any written law; or

     (b) the making of a complaint or report under any
          specified written law for an offence alleged or
          suspected to have been committed under any
          written law

2. Disclosure is necessary for compliance with an order of the
   Supreme Court or a Judge sitting in the Supreme Court
   pursuant to the powers conferred under Part 4 of the Evidence
   Act 1893

                         PART 2
     FURTHER DISCLOSURE PROHIBITED

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
                                                                                                          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

                                                          First column                                                                   Second column                                                                                             Third column

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025  Purpose for which specified                      Persons to whom specified                                                                                                       Restrictions and conditions
                                                          information may be disclosed                    information may be disclosed
                                                                                                                                                                                                           (a) Disclosure must not be made to any person mentioned in the second column
                                                          1. Disclosure is solely in connection with the  In the case of a prescribed financial institution which is —                                          who —                                                                                     FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS
                                                             performance of duties as an officer or a
                                                             professional adviser mentioned in the            (a) a branch or office of a bank incorporated outside Singapore —                                          (i) is outside Singapore;
                                                             second column in managing one or more of
                                                             the following risks of the prescribed                           (i) any officer of the prescribed financial institution;                                   (ii) is ordinarily resident outside Singapore; or
                                                             financial institution:
                                                                                                                            (ii) any officer of any member of the prescribed financial institution’s                    (iii) is not either —
                                                                      (a) money laundering risk;                                 financial group who is designated in writing by any other officer of the
                                                                                                                                 head office of the prescribed financial institution;                                                (A) a member of the prescribed financial institution’s financial
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           group; or
                                                          (b) terrorism financing risk;                   (iii) any officer of any member of the prescribed financial institution’s
                                                                                                                financial group who is designated in writing by the parent entity of the                                             (B) an officer of a member of the prescribed financial
                                                          (c) risk of financing the                             prescribed financial institution;                                                                                          institution’s financial group,
                                                               proliferation of weapons of
                                                               mass destruction                           (iv) any lawyer or consultant appointed or engaged by the prescribed                                  unless the identity of every relevant person and every officer of every relevant
                                                                                                                financial institution under a contract for service; or                                          person mentioned in the specified information has been anonymised;

                                                                                                          (v) any auditor appointed or engaged by —                                                        (b) Disclosure must not be made to any auditor appointed or engaged by a person
                                                                                                                                                                                                                mentioned in sub‑paragraph (a)(v)(B) or (C) of the second column unless the
                                                                                                          (A) the prescribed financial institution;                                                             auditor has given to the prescribed financial institution a written undertaking that
                                                                                                                                                                                                                the auditor will not disclose any specified information obtained by the auditor for
                                                                                                          (B) any officer of the head office of the bank, on behalf of the                                      the purposes of the performance of audit to any person other than —
                                                                                                               bank; or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (i) the officers of the head office of the prescribed financial institution; or
                                                                                                          (C) the parent entity of the prescribed financial institution,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (ii) the parent entity of the prescribed financial institution;
                                                                                                          under a contract for service; or
                                                                                                                                                                                                           (c) Disclosure must not be made to any auditor appointed or engaged by a person
                                                                                                          (b) a financial institution —                                                                         mentioned in sub‑paragraph (b)(v)(B) of the second column unless the auditor has
                                                                                                                                                                                                                given to the prescribed financial institution a written undertaking that the auditor
                                                                                                          (i) any officer of any branch or office of the prescribed financial institution                       will not disclose any specified information obtained by the auditor for the
                                                                                                              located within Singapore;                                                                         purposes of the performance of audit to any person other than the parent entity of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                the prescribed financial institution
                                                                                                          (ii) any officer of any branch of the prescribed financial institution located
                                                                                                               outside Singapore who is designated in writing by the prescribed
                                                                                                               financial institution;

                                                                                                          (iii) any officer of any member of the prescribed financial institution’s                                                                                                                       399
                                                                                                                financial group who is designated in writing by the prescribed financial
                                                                                                                institution or the parent entity of the prescribed financial institution;
                                                                                                              THIRD SCHEDULE — continued                                                                                                                                                                     400

                                                          First column                                        Second column                                                                                                                               Third column
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Restrictions and conditions
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025  Purpose for which specified                          Persons to whom specified
                                                          information may be disclosed                        information may be disclosed                                                                        (a) Where the prescribed financial institution had received the specified information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       under section 28D or 28E, disclosure must not be made to any person mentioned
                                                                                                              (iv) any lawyer or consultant appointed or engaged by the prescribed                                     in the second column who is outside Singapore or is ordinarily resident outside
                                                                                                                   financial institution under a contract for service; or                                              Singapore, unless —
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (i) the prescribed financial institution has filed a suspicious transaction
                                                                                                              (v) any auditor appointed or engaged by —                                                                              report in respect of any property connected to the relevant party to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     which the disclosure relates; and
                                                                                                              (A) the prescribed financial institution; or                                                                     (ii) the identity of every relevant person and every officer of every
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     relevant person mentioned in the specified information has been
                                                                                                              (B) the parent entity of the prescribed financial institution,                                                         anonymised;

                                                                                                              under a contract for service                                                                        (b) Where the prescribed financial institution had accessed the specified information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       under section 28F, disclosure must not be made to any person mentioned in the
                                                          2. Disclosure is solely in connection with the      In the case of a prescribed financial institution which is —                                             second column who is outside Singapore or is ordinarily resident outside              NO. 18 OF 2022
                                                             management of any —                                                                                                                                       Singapore, unless the identity of every relevant person and every officer of every
                                                                                                                  (a) a branch or office of a bank incorporated outside Singapore —                                    relevant person mentioned in the specified information has been anonymised
                                                                      (a) money laundering risk;
                                                                                                                                 (i) any officer of the head office of the prescribed financial institution who
                                                                      (b) terrorism financing risk; or                               is designated in writing by any other officer of the head office of the
                                                                                                                                     prescribed financial institution;
                                                                      (c) risk of financing the
                                                                           proliferation of weapons of                          (ii) any officer of the parent entity of the prescribed financial institution
                                                                           mass destruction,                                         who is designated in writing by the parent entity of the prescribed
                                                                                                                                     financial institution;
                                                             of —
                                                                                                                               (iii) any officer of any branch of the prescribed financial institution located
                                                                      (d) in the case of a prescribed                                outside Singapore who is designated in writing by any officer of the
                                                                           financial institution mentioned                           head office, or the parent entity, of the prescribed financial institution;
                                                                           in sub‑paragraph (a) of the                               or
                                                                           second column, the head office
                                                                           of the prescribed financial                          (iv) any officer of any related corporation of the prescribed financial
                                                                           institution;                                              institution who is designated in writing by any officer of the head office,
                                                                                                                                     or the parent entity, of the prescribed financial institution; or
                                                                      (e) the parent entity of the
                                                                           prescribed financial institution;      (b) a financial institution —

                                                          (f) in the case of a prescribed                     (i) any officer of the parent entity of the prescribed financial institution
                                                              financial institution mentioned                     who is designated in writing by the parent entity of the prescribed
                                                              in sub‑paragraph (a) of the                         financial institution; or
                                                              second column, any branch of
                                                              the prescribed financial
                                                                                                              THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

                                                          First column                                        Second column                                                                                 Third column

                                                          Purpose for which specified                          Persons to whom specified                                                                    Restrictions and conditions
                                                          information may be disclosed                        information may be disclosed
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
                                                               institution located outside                    (ii) any officer of any related corporation of the prescribed financial                                                                                                                      FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS
                                                               Singapore; or                                       institution who is designated in writing by the prescribed financial
                                                                                                                   institution or the parent entity of the prescribed financial institution
                                                          (g) a related corporation of the
                                                               prescribed financial institution

                                                          3. Disclosure is solely in connection with the      Any person that is engaged by —                                                               If any such out-sourced function is —
                                                             performance of operational functions of the          (a) the prescribed financial institution; or                                                  (a) to be performed outside Singapore;
                                                             prescribed financial institution in relation to      (b) where the prescribed financial institution is a branch or office of a bank                (b) to be performed by a person who is ordinarily resident outside Singapore; or
                                                             the management of one or more of the                      incorporated outside Singapore, the bank,                                                (c) to be performed by any person who is not either —
                                                             following risks of the prescribed financial                                                                                                                       (i) a member of the prescribed financial institution’s financial group; or
                                                             institution, where such operational              to perform the out-sourced functions                                                                            (ii) an officer of a member of the prescribed financial institution’s
                                                             functions have been out-sourced:                                                                                                                                      financial group,

                                                          (a) money laundering risk;                                                                                                                        the disclosure is subject to any conditions that may be specified in a notice or direction
                                                                                                                                                                                                            issued by the Authority or otherwise imposed by the Authority
                                                          (b) terrorism financing risk;

                                                          (c) risk of financing the
                                                              proliferation of weapons of
                                                              mass destruction

                                                          4. Disclosure is solely in connection with the      Any person participating or otherwise involved in the merger, acquisition or issue, or        Disclosure must not be made to any person mentioned in the second column who —
                                                             management of any —                              proposed merger, acquisition or issue, including any of the person’s lawyers or other             (a) is outside Singapore;
                                                                                                              professional advisers (whether or not the merger or acquisition is subsequently entered into      (b) is ordinarily resident outside Singapore; or
                                                                      (a) money laundering risk;              or completed)                                                                                     (c) is not either —
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (i) a member of the prescribed financial institution’s financial group; or
                                                                      (b) terrorism financing risk; or                                                                                                                        (ii) an officer of a member of the prescribed financial institution’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   financial group,
                                                                      (c) risk of financing the
                                                                           proliferation of weapons of
                                                                           mass destruction,

                                                             for —

                                                          (d) in the case where the prescribed                                                                                                              unless the identity of every relevant person and every officer of every relevant person
                                                               financial institution is not a                                                                                                               mentioned in the specified information has been anonymised
                                                               branch or office of a bank
                                                               incorporated outside Singapore,                                                                                                                                                                                                             401
                                                               the merger or proposed merger
                                                                                                       THIRD SCHEDULE — continued                                 402

                                                                    First column                               Second column                 Third column
                                                                                                        Persons to whom specified    Restrictions and conditions
                                                          Purpose for which specified                  information may be disclosed
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025  information may be disclosed
                                                                                                                                                                  NO. 18 OF 2022
                                                                    of the prescribed financial
                                                                    institution or its holding
                                                                    company (where its holding
                                                                    company is a financial holding
                                                                    company) with another
                                                                    company;

                                                               (e) in the case where the prescribed
                                                                    financial institution is a branch
                                                                    or office of a bank incorporated
                                                                    outside Singapore, the merger
                                                                    or proposed merger of the bank
                                                                    or its holding company (where
                                                                    its holding company is a
                                                                    financial holding company)
                                                                    with another company;

                                                                (f) in the case where the prescribed
                                                                    financial institution is not a
                                                                    branch or office of a bank
                                                                    incorporated outside Singapore,
                                                                    any acquisition or issue, or
                                                                    proposed acquisition or issue, of
                                                                    any part of the share capital of
                                                                    the prescribed financial
                                                                    institution or its holding
                                                                    company (where its holding
                                                                    company is a financial holding
                                                                    company); or

                                                               (g) in the case of a prescribed
                                                                    financial institution that is a
                                                                    branch or office of a bank
                                                                    incorporated outside Singapore,
                                                                    any acquisition or issue, or
                                                                    proposed acquisition or issue, of
                                                                    any part of the share capital of
                                                                    the bank or its holding company
                                                                                                                      THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

                                                          First column                                                Second column                                                                                      Third column

                                                          Purpose for which specified                                  Persons to whom specified                                                                         Restrictions and conditions
                                                          information may be disclosed                                information may be disclosed
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
                                                          (where its holding company is a                                                                                                                                                                                                    FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS
                                                          financial holding company),

                                                          whether or not the merger, acquisition or
                                                          issue is subsequently entered into or
                                                          completed

                                                          5. Disclosure is solely in connection with the   Any —                                                                              Disclosure must not be made to any person mentioned in the second column who —
                                                             management of any —                                                                                                                  (a) is outside Singapore;
                                                                                                               (a) transferee defined in section 55A of the Banking Act 1970;                     (b) is ordinarily resident outside Singapore; or
                                                                      (a) money laundering risk;                                                                                                  (c) is not either —
                                                                                                               (b) professional adviser appointed by any transferor or transferee defined in                     (i) a member of the prescribed financial institution’s financial group; or
                                                                      (b) terrorism financing risk; or              section 55A of the Banking Act 1970; or                                                     (ii) an officer of a member of the prescribed financial institution’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     financial group,
                                                          (c) risk of financing the                        (c) independent assessor appointed by the Minister or the Authority under
                                                              proliferation of weapons of                      section 55B(4) of the Banking Act 1970                                         unless the identity of every relevant person and every officer of every relevant person
                                                              mass destruction,                                                                                                               mentioned in the specified information has been anonymised

                                                          for the transfer or proposed transfer of the
                                                          business of the prescribed financial
                                                          institution to a company under Division 1 of
                                                          Part 7A of the Banking Act 1970, whether
                                                          or not the transfer is subsequently carried
                                                          out or completed

                                                          6. Disclosure is solely in connection with the   (a) Any —                                                                          Disclosure must not be made to any person mentioned in the second column who —
                                                             management of any —
                                                                                                                      (i) transferee, defined in section 65;                                  (a) is outside Singapore;
                                                                      (a) money laundering risk;
                                                                                                           (ii) professional adviser appointed by any transferor or transferee defined        (b) is ordinarily resident outside Singapore; or
                                                                      (b) terrorism financing risk; or           in section 65; or                                                            (c) is not either —

                                                                      (c) risk of financing the            (iii) independent assessor appointed by the Authority under section 66(4);                       (i) a member of the prescribed financial institution’s financial group; or
                                                                           proliferation of weapons of           or
                                                                           mass destruction,
                                                                                                           (b) Where the prescribed financial institution is a branch or office of a bank     (ii) an officer of a member of the prescribed financial institution’s
                                                             for the transfer or proposed transfer of the       incorporated outside Singapore, any officer of —                                   financial group,
                                                             business of —
                                                                                                                                                                                              unless the identity of every relevant person and every officer of every relevant person
                                                                                                                      (i) the head office of the bank; or                                     mentioned in the specified information has been anonymised                                     403
                                                                                                          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued                                                                                                                                                        404

                                                          First column                                    Second column                                                                                                                   Third column
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Restrictions and conditions
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025  Purpose for which specified                      Persons to whom specified
                                                          information may be disclosed                    information may be disclosed                                                       Disclosure must not be made to any person mentioned in the second column who —
                                                                                                                                                                                                 (a) is outside Singapore;
                                                          (d) in the case where the prescribed            (ii) another branch of the bank                                                        (b) is ordinarily resident outside Singapore; or
                                                               financial institution is not a                                                                                                    (c) is not either —
                                                               branch or office of a bank                                                                                                                       (i) a member of the prescribed financial institution’s financial group; or
                                                               incorporated outside Singapore,                                                                                                                 (ii) an officer of a member of the prescribed financial institution’s
                                                               the prescribed financial                                                                                                                             financial group,
                                                               institution; and
                                                                                                                                                                                             unless the identity of every relevant person and every officer of every relevant person
                                                          (e) in the case where the prescribed                                                                                               mentioned in the specified information has been anonymised                                     NO. 18 OF 2022
                                                              financial institution is a branch
                                                              or office of a bank incorporated
                                                              outside Singapore, the bank,

                                                          to a company under Division 2 of Part 8,
                                                          whether or not the transfer is subsequently
                                                          carried out or completed

                                                          7. Disclosure is solely in connection with the  Any —
                                                             management of any —
                                                                                                              (a) transferor or transferee, defined in section 74(1);
                                                                      (a) money laundering risk;
                                                                                                              (b) professional adviser appointed by the transferor or transferee defined in
                                                                      (b) terrorism financing risk; or             section 74(1); or

                                                          (c) risk of financing the                       (c) independent assessor appointed by the Authority under section 75(2)
                                                              proliferation of weapons of
                                                              mass destruction,

                                                          for the transfer or proposed transfer of the
                                                          shares —

                                                          (d) in the case where the prescribed
                                                               financial institution is not a
                                                               branch or office of a bank
                                                               incorporated outside Singapore,
                                                               in the prescribed financial
                                                               institution; and

                                                          (e) in the case where the prescribed
                                                              financial institution is a branch
                                                                                                            THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

                                                          First column                                      Second column                                                                                   Third column

                                                          Purpose for which specified                        Persons to whom specified                                                                      Restrictions and conditions
                                                          information may be disclosed                      information may be disclosed
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
                                                          or office of a bank incorporated                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS
                                                          outside Singapore, in the bank,

                                                          under Division 4 of Part 8, whether or not
                                                          the transfer is subsequently carried out or
                                                          completed

                                                          8. Disclosure is solely in connection with the    Any —                                                                                           Disclosure must not be made to any person mentioned in the second column who —
                                                             management of any —                                (a) shareholder of the prescribed financial institution or bank, as the case may be;            (a) is outside Singapore;
                                                                                                                (b) subscriber defined in section 77;                                                           (b) is ordinarily resident outside Singapore; or
                                                                      (a) money laundering risk;                (c) professional adviser appointed by the prescribed financial institution or bank (as the      (c) is not either —
                                                                                                                     case may be) or any person mentioned in sub‑paragraph (a) or (b); or                                      (i) a member of the prescribed financial institution’s financial group; or
                                                                      (b) terrorism financing risk; or          (d) independent assessor appointed by the Authority under section 78(3)                                       (ii) an officer of a member of the prescribed financial institution’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   financial group,
                                                                      (c) risk of financing the
                                                                           proliferation of weapons of                                                                                                      unless the identity of every relevant person and every officer of every relevant person
                                                                           mass destruction,                                                                                                                mentioned in the specified information has been anonymised

                                                             for the restructuring or proposed
                                                             restructuring of the share capital of —

                                                                      (d) in the case where the prescribed
                                                                           financial institution is not a
                                                                           branch or office of a bank
                                                                           incorporated outside Singapore,
                                                                           the prescribed financial
                                                                           institution; and

                                                          (e) in the case where the prescribed
                                                              financial institution is a branch
                                                              or office of a bank incorporated
                                                              outside Singapore, the bank,

                                                          under Division 5 of Part 8, whether or not
                                                          the restructuring is carried out or completed

                                                          9. Disclosure is solely in connection with the    Any transferee or purchaser or any other person participating or otherwise involved in the      (a) Specified information, other than information relating to the relevant credit              405
                                                             management of any —                            restructure, transfer or sale, or proposed restructure, transfer or sale, including any of the       facilities, must not be disclosed;
                                                                                                            person’s lawyers or other professional advisers (whether or not the restructure, transfer or
                                                                      (a) money laundering risk;            sale is subsequently entered into or completed)
                                                                                                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued                                                                                                406

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025               First column                              Second column                                                 Third column
                                                                                                                                                                       Restrictions and conditions
                                                              Purpose for which specified                 Persons to whom specified
                                                             information may be disclosed                information may be disclosed  (b) Disclosure must not be made to any person mentioned in the second column
                                                                                                                                            who —
                                                                   (b) terrorism financing risk; or                                                  (i) is outside Singapore;                                                     NO. 18 OF 2022
                                                                                                                                                    (ii) is ordinarily resident outside Singapore; or
                                                                   (c) risk of financing the                                                        (iii) is not either —
                                                                        proliferation of weapons of                                                              (A) a member of the prescribed financial institution’s financial
                                                                        mass destruction,                                                                              group; or
                                                                                                                                                                 (B) an officer of a member of the prescribed financial
                                                          for the restructure, transfer or sale, or                                                                    institution’s financial group,
                                                          proposed restructure, transfer or sale, of                                        unless the identity of every relevant person and every officer of every relevant
                                                          credit facilities (whether or not the                                             person mentioned in the specified information has been anonymised
                                                          restructure, transfer or sale is subsequently
                                                          entered into or completed)
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            407

                          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

                                          PART 3

                                   INTERPRETATION

1. In this Schedule —

    “financial group”, in relation to a prescribed financial institution, means a
        group of which the prescribed financial institution is a member, that
        comprises —

               (a) a legal person that exercises control over, and performs
                    coordinating functions in relation to, every member of the
                    rest of the group;

               (b) every branch of the person mentioned in paragraph (a); and

               (c) every subsidiary of the person mentioned in paragraph (a) that
                    is a financial institution or foreign financial institution;

    “financial holding company” means a company designated by the Authority
        under section 4 of the Financial Holding Companies Act 2013;

    “foreign financial institution” has the meaning given by section 17(1);

    “holding company” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Financial
        Holding Companies Act 2013;

    “parent entity” —

               (a) in relation to a prescribed financial institution that is not a
                    branch or office of a bank incorporated outside Singapore,
                    means an entity that is able to exercise a significant influence
                    over the direction and management of the prescribed financial
                    institution or which has a controlling interest in the prescribed
                    financial institution; and

               (b) in relation to a prescribed financial institution that is a branch or
                    office of a bank incorporated outside Singapore, means an
                    entity that is able to exercise a significant influence over the
                    direction and management of the bank or which has a
                    controlling interest in the bank;

    “public officer” includes any officer of a statutory board;

    “related corporation” —

               (a) in relation to a prescribed financial institution that is not a
                    branch or office of a bank incorporated outside Singapore,
                    means a corporation that is deemed to be related to the
                    prescribed financial institution by virtue of section 6 of the
                    Companies Act 1967; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
408  NO. 18 OF 2022

                          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
               (b) in relation to a prescribed financial institution that is a branch or

                    office of a bank incorporated outside Singapore, means a
                    corporation that is deemed to be related to the bank by virtue of
                    section 6 of the Companies Act 1967;
    “relevant person” means a prescribed financial institution or the Authority;
    “specified information” means any risk information that a prescribed
        financial institution receives or accesses under Part 4A;
    “specified written law” means the following Acts:
               (a) the Companies Act 1967;
               (b) the Corruption, Drug Trafficking and Other Serious Crimes
                    (Confiscation of Benefits) Act 1992;
               (c) the Criminal Procedure Code 2010;
               (d) the Goods and Services Tax Act 1993;
               (e) the Hostage-Taking Act 2010;
               (f) the Income Tax Act 1947;
               (g) the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018;
               (h) the Internal Security Act 1960;
               (i) the Kidnapping Act 1961;
               (j) the Moneylenders Act 2008;
               (k) the Prevention of Corruption Act 1960;
               (l) the Terrorism (Suppression of Financing) Act 2002;
    “subsidiary” has the meaning given by section 5 of the Companies Act 1967;
    “suspicious transaction report” has the meaning given by section 28F(5).
2. For the purposes of this Schedule —
       (a) a property is connected to a relevant party if the relevant party is
            connected to the property in the manner set out in section 28F(4);
       (b) a reference to a prescribed financial institution that is a branch or office
            of a bank incorporated outside Singapore is a reference to such a
            branch or office located within Singapore;
       (c) where a prescribed financial institution is a branch or office of a bank
            incorporated outside Singapore —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND MARKETS                            409

                   THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

         (i) a reference to the head office of a prescribed financial
              institution is a reference to the head office of the bank; and

        (ii) a reference to a branch of a prescribed financial institution is a
              reference to a branch of the bank; and

(d) expressions in this Schedule that are defined in section 28B have the
     same meaning as in that section.

                                                                     [Act 19 of 2023 wef 01/04/2024]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/6/2025
