THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                      EVIDENCE ACT 1893

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                                                                  2020 Ed.

         Evidence Act 1893

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                         PART 1
              RELEVANCY OF FACTS

Section

Section                               Preliminary

     1.  Short title
     2.  Application of Parts 1, 2 and 3
     3.  Interpretation
     4.  Presumptions

                                  Relevancy of facts

 5. Evidence may be given of facts in issue and relevant facts
 6. Relevancy of facts forming part of same transaction
 7. Facts which are the occasion, cause or effect of facts in issue
 8. Motive, preparation and previous or subsequent conduct
 9. Facts necessary to explain or introduce relevant facts
10. Things said or done by conspirator in reference to common

         design
11. When facts not otherwise relevant become relevant
12. In suits for damages facts tending to enable court to determine

         amount are relevant
13. Facts relevant when right or custom is in question
14. Facts showing existence of state of mind or of body or bodily

         feeling
15. Facts bearing on question whether act was accidental or

         intentional
16. Existence of course of business when relevant

                            Admissions and confessions
17. Admission and confession defined

                                                  1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                                2

Section

   18. Admission by party to proceeding or his or her agent, by suitor in
            representative character, etc.

   19. Admissions by persons whose position must be proved as
            against party to suit

   20. Admissions by persons expressly referred to by party to suit
   21. Proof of admissions against persons making them and by or on

            their behalf
   22. When oral admissions as to contents of documents are relevant
   23. Admissions in civil cases when relevant
   24. to 30. [Repealed]
   31. Admissions not conclusive proof but may estop
   32. Cases in which statement of relevant fact by person who is dead

            or cannot be found, etc., is relevant
   32A. Protest, greeting, etc., treated as stating fact that utterance

            implies
   32B. Statement of opinion
   32C. Admissibility of evidence as to credibility of maker, etc., of

            statement admitted under certain provisions
   33. Relevancy of certain evidence for proving in subsequent

            proceeding the truth of facts therein stated

          Statements made under special circumstances

34.       Entries in books of accounts when relevant
35.       [Repealed]
36.       [Repealed]
36A.      Rules for filing and receiving evidence and documents in court
          by using information technology
37.       Relevancy of entry in public record made in performance of duty
38.       Relevancy of statements in maps, charts and plans
39.       Relevancy of statement as to fact of public nature contained in
          certain Ordinances, Acts or notifications
40.       Relevancy of statements as to any law contained in law books

                    How much of a statement is to be proved

41. What evidence to be given when statement forms part of
         conversation, document, book or series of letters or papers

                  Judgments of courts of justice when relevant

42. Previous judgments relevant to bar a second suit or trial
43. Relevancy of certain judgments in probate, etc., jurisdiction

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
3        Evidence Act 1893                                           2020 Ed.

Section  Relevancy and effect of judgments, orders or decrees other than
   44.   those mentioned in section 43
         Judgments, etc., other than those mentioned in sections 42, 43
   45.   and 44 when relevant
         Relevance of convictions and acquittals
   45A.  Fraud or collusion in obtaining judgment or incompetency of
   46.   court may be proved

                       Opinions of third persons when relevant

   47. Opinions of experts
   48. Facts bearing upon opinions of experts
   49. Opinion as to handwriting when relevant
   50. Opinion as to existence of right or custom when relevant
   51. Opinion as to usages, tenets, etc., when relevant
   52. Opinion on relationship when relevant
   53. Grounds of opinion when relevant

                                 Character when relevant

   54. In civil cases character to prove conduct imputed irrelevant
   55. In criminal cases previous good character relevant
   56. Admissibility of evidence and questions about accused’s

            disposition or reputation
   57. Character as affecting damages

                                           PART 2
                                           PROOF

                            Facts which need not be proved
   58. Fact judicially noticeable need not be proved
   59. Facts of which court must take judicial notice
   60. Facts admitted need not be proved

                                       Oral evidence

   61. Proof of facts by oral evidence
   62. Oral evidence must be direct
   62A. Evidence through live video or live television links, etc.

                                  Documentary evidence
   63. Proof of contents of documents

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                                 4

Section   Primary evidence
   64.    Secondary evidence
   65.    Proof of documents by primary evidence
   66.    Cases in which secondary evidence relating to documents may
   67.    be given
          Proof of documents in certain cases
   67A.   Rules as to notice to produce
   68.    Manner of giving voluminous or complex evidence
   68A.   Proof of signature and handwriting of person alleged to have
   69.    signed or written document produced
          Proof of execution of document required by law to be attested
   70.    Proof where no attesting witness found
   71.    Admission of execution by party to attested document
   72.    Proof when attesting witness denies the execution
   73.    Proof of document not required by law to be attested
   74.    Comparison of signature, writing or seal with others admitted or
   75.    proved

          Public documents

76.       Public documents
77.       Private documents
78.       Certified copies of public documents
79.       Proof of documents by production of certified copies
80.       Proof of other official documents
80A.      Prints from films in possession of the Government and statutory
          body
80B.      Proof of signature, seal, etc., on foreign public document under
          Apostille Convention

                          Presumptions as to documents

81. Presumption as to genuineness of certified copies
82. Presumption as to documents produced as record of evidence
83. Presumption as to Gazettes, newspapers and other documents
84. Presumption as to document admissible in England without

         proof of seal or signature
85. Presumption as to maps or plans made by authority of

         Government
86. Presumption as to publication containing law or report of court

         decision
87. Presumption as to powers of attorney

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
5        Evidence Act 1893                                               2020 Ed.

Section  Presumption as to certified copies of foreign judicial records
   88.   Presumption as to books, maps and charts
   89.   Presumption as to telegraphic messages
   90.   Presumption as to due execution, etc., of documents not
   91.   produced
         Presumption as to documents 30 years old
   92.

                       Exclusion of oral by documentary evidence

    93. Evidence of terms of contracts, grants and other dispositions of
             property reduced to form of document

    94. Exclusion of evidence of oral agreement
    95. Exclusion of evidence to explain or amend ambiguous document
    96. Exclusion of evidence against application of document to

             existing facts
    97. Evidence as to document meaningless in reference to existing

             facts
    98. Evidence as to application of language which can apply to one

             only of several persons
    99. Evidence as to application of language to one of 2 sets of facts to

             neither of which the whole correctly applies
   100. Evidence as to meaning of illegible characters, etc.
   101. Who may give evidence of agreement varying terms of

             document
   102. Construction of wills not affected by sections 93 to 101

                                             PART 3

                    PRODUCTION AND EFFECT OF EVIDENCE

                                        Burden of proof

   103. Burden of proof
   104. On whom burden of proof lies
   105. Burden of proof as to particular fact
   106. Burden of proving fact to be proved to make evidence

             admissible
   107. Burden of proving that case of accused comes within exceptions
   108. Burden of proving fact especially within knowledge
   109. Burden of proving death of person known to have been alive

             within 30 years
   110. Burden of proving that person is alive who has not been heard of

             for 7 years

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                                   6

Section   Burden of proof as to relationship in the cases of partners,
  111.    landlord and tenant, principal and agent
          Burden of proof as to ownership
  112.    Proof of good faith in transactions where one party is in relation
  113.    of active confidence
          Rebuttable presumption of paternity
  114.    [Repealed]
  115.    Court may presume existence of certain fact
  116.    Presumptions in relation to electronic records
  116A.

                                         Estoppel

117. Estoppel
118. Estoppel of tenant and of licensee of person in possession
119. Estoppel of bailee or licensee

          Witnesses

120.      Who may testify
121.      Dumb witnesses
122.      Parties to civil suit and their wives or husbands, and husband or
          wife of person under criminal trial
123.      Judges and Magistrates
124.      Communications during marriage
125.      Evidence as to affairs of State
126.      Official communications
127.      Information as to commission of offences
128.      Professional communications
128A.     Communications with legal counsel in entity
129.      Sections 128 and 128A to apply to interpreters, etc.
130.      Privilege not waived by volunteering evidence
131.      Confidential communications with legal advisers
132.      Production of title deeds of witness not a party
133.      Production of documents which another person having
          possession could refuse to produce
134.      Witness not excused from answering on ground that answer will
          criminate
135.      Accomplice
136.      Number of witnesses

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
7        Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

         Examination of witnesses

Section  Order of production and examination of witnesses
  137.   Court to decide as to admissibility of evidence
  138.   Examination-in-chief, cross-examination and re-examination
  139.   Order of examinations and direction of re-examination
  140.   Cross-examination of person called to produce document
  141.   Witnesses to character
  142.   Leading questions
  143.   When they must not be asked
  144.   When they may be asked
  145.   Evidence as to matters in writing
  146.   Cross-examination as to previous statements in writing
  147.   Questions lawful in cross-examination
  148.   When witness to be compelled to answer
  149.   Court to decide when question is to be asked and when witness
  150.   compelled to answer
         Question not to be asked without reasonable grounds
  151.   Procedure of court in case of question being asked without
  152.   reasonable grounds
         Indecent and scandalous questions
  153.   Questions intended to insult or annoy
  154.   Restrictions on questions and evidence in criminal proceedings
  154A.  involving sexual offence or child abuse offence
         Exclusion of evidence to contradict answers to questions testing
  155.   veracity
         Questions by party to his or her own witness
  156.   Impeaching credit of witness
  157.   Questions tending to corroborate evidence of relevant fact
  158.   admissible
         Former statements of witness may be proved to corroborate later
  159.   testimony as to same fact
         What matters may be proved in connection with proved
  160.   statement relevant under section 32 or 33
         Evidence not capable of corroboration
  160A.  Refreshing memory
  161.   Testimony to facts stated in document mentioned in section 161
  162.   Right of adverse party as to writing used to refresh memory
  163.   Production and translation of documents
  164.   Giving as evidence document called for and produced on notice
  165.

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                              8

Section   Using as evidence document production of which was refused on
  166.    notice
          Judge’s power to put questions or order production
  167.    Power of assessors to put questions
  168.

                  Improper admission and rejection of evidence
169. No new trial for improper admission or rejection of evidence

                                          PART 4

                                 BANKERS’ BOOKS

170. Interpretation of this Part
171. Mode of proof of entries in bankers’ books
172. Proof that book is a banker’s book
173. Verification of copy
174. Production by, or appearance of, officer of bank
175. Court or Judge may order inspection
176. Costs

                                          PART 5

                                  MISCELLANEOUS

177. Amendment of Schedules
          First Schedule — Child abuse offences and
                                 sexual offences
          Second Schedule

An Act relating to the law of evidence.

                                                       [1 July 1893]

                                    PART 1
                         RELEVANCY OF FACTS

                                  Preliminary
Short title

 1. This Act is the Evidence Act 1893.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
9  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

Application of Parts 1, 2 and 3

 2.—(1) Parts 1, 2 and 3 apply to all judicial proceedings in or before
any court, but not to affidavits presented to any court or officer nor to
proceedings before an arbitrator.

 (2) All rules of evidence not contained in any written law, so far as
such rules are inconsistent with any of the provisions of this Act, are
repealed.

Interpretation

 3.—(1) In Parts 1, 2 and 3, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “child abuse offence” means any offence specified in Part 1 of
         the First Schedule, and includes attempting to commit,
         abetting the commission of, or being a party to a criminal
         conspiracy to commit, such an offence;

      “copy of a document” includes —

              (a) in the case of a document falling within paragraph (d)
                   but not paragraph (e) of the definition of “document”,
                   a transcript of the sounds or other data embodied in it;

              (b) in the case of a document falling within paragraph (e)
                   but not paragraph (d) of that definition, a
                   reproduction or still reproduction of the image or
                   images embodied in it, whether enlarged or not;

              (c) in the case of a document falling within
                   paragraphs (d) and (e) of that definition, such a
                   transcript together with such a still reproduction; and

              (d) in the case of a document not falling within
                   paragraph (e) of that definition of which a visual
                   image is embodied in a document falling within that
                   paragraph, a reproduction of that image, whether
                   enlarged or not,

         and any reference to a copy of the material part of a document
         must be construed accordingly;

      “country” includes a territory;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        10

“court” includes all Judges and Magistrates and, except
   arbitrators, all persons legally authorised to take evidence;

“document” includes, in addition to a document in writing —

          (a) any map, plan, graph or drawing;

          (b) any photograph;

          (c) any label, marking or other writing which identifies
              or describes anything of which it forms a part, or to
              which it is attached by any means whatsoever;

          (d) any disc, tape, soundtrack or other device in which
               sounds or other data (not being visual images) are
               embodied so as to be capable (with or without the aid
               of some other equipment) of being reproduced
               therefrom;

          (e) any film (including microfilm), negative, tape, disc
              or other device in which one or more visual images
              are embodied so as to be capable (with or without the
              aid of some other equipment) of being reproduced
              therefrom; and

          (f) any paper or other material on which there are marks,
              impressions, figures, letters, symbols or perforations
              having a meaning for persons qualified to interpret
              them;

“electronic record” means a record generated, communicated,
   received or stored by electronic, magnetic, optical or other
   means in an information system or transmitted from one
   information system to another;

“evidence” includes —

          (a) all statements which the court permits or requires to
               be made before it by witnesses in relation to matters
               of fact under inquiry: such statements are called oral
               evidence; and

          (b) all documents produced for the inspection of the
               court: such documents are called documentary
               evidence;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
11  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

    “fact” includes —

            (a) any thing, state of things, or relation of things,
                 capable of being received by the senses; and

            (b) any mental condition of which any person is
                 conscious;

                                        Illustrations

(a) That there are certain objects arranged in a certain order in a certain place is a
fact.

(b) That a man heard or saw something is a fact.

(c) That a man said certain words is a fact.

(d) That a man holds a certain opinion, has a certain intention, acts in good faith
or fraudulently, or uses a particular word in a particular sense, or is or was at a
specified time conscious of a particular sensation, is a fact.

(e) That a man has a certain reputation is a fact.

     “fact in issue” includes any fact from which either by itself or in
        connection with other facts the existence, non‑existence,
        nature or extent of any right, liability or disability asserted or
        denied in any suit or proceeding necessarily follows;

                                         Illustration

A is accused of the murder of B.

At A’s trial the following facts may be in issue:

(a) that A caused B’s death;

(b) that A intended to cause B’s death;

 (c) that A had received grave and sudden provocation from B;

(d) that A at the time of doing the act which caused B’s death was by reason of
      unsoundness of mind incapable of knowing its nature.

    “sexual offence” means any offence specified in Part 2 of the
       First Schedule, and includes attempting to commit, abetting
       the commission of, or being a party to a criminal conspiracy
       to commit, such an offence.

                                                                                 [4/2012; 16/2016; 20/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.    Evidence Act 1893                                      12

“Relevant”

 (2) One fact is said to be relevant to another when the one is
connected with the other in any of the ways referred to in the
provisions of this Act relating to the relevancy of facts.

“Proved”

 (3) A fact is said to be “proved” when, after considering the matters
before it, the court either believes it to exist or considers its existence
so probable that a prudent person ought, under the circumstances of
the particular case, to act upon the supposition that it exists.

“Disproved”

 (4) A fact is said to be “disproved” when, after considering the
matters before it, the court either believes that it does not exist or
considers its non-existence so probable that a prudent person ought,
under the circumstances of the particular case, to act upon the
supposition that it does not exist.

“Not proved”

 (5) A fact is said to be “not proved” when it is neither proved nor
disproved.

 (6) For the purposes of sections 23, 128, 130 and 131, a reference to
“advocate or solicitor” in those sections includes a reference to the
following:

       (a) any public officer in the Attorney-General’s Chambers
            when he or she acts as an advocate or a solicitor;

       (b) the Chief Public Defender, a Deputy Chief Public
            Defender, an Assistant Chief Public Defender or a public
            defender appointed under section 3 of the Public Defenders
            Act 2022, when he or she acts as an advocate or a solicitor.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2022 wef 01/12/2022]

 (7) In sections 23, 128A, 130 and 131, a “legal counsel” means —

       (a) a person (by whatever name called) who is an employee of
            an entity employed to undertake the provision of legal

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
13  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

    advice or assistance in connection with the application of
    the law or any form of resolution of legal disputes;

    (aa) any Deputy Attorney‑General; or

    (b) a Judicial Service Officer or Legal Service Officer —

    (i) working in a ministry or department of the
        Government or an Organ of State as legal adviser
        to that ministry or department or Organ of State; or

    (ii) seconded as legal adviser to any statutory body
         established or constituted by or under a public Act
         for a public function.

                                                                                [4/2012; 41/2014]

                                                              [Act 33 of 2021 wef 14/01/2022]

Presumptions

 4.—(1) Whenever it is provided by this Act that the court may
presume a fact, it may either regard such fact as proved unless and
until it is disproved, or may call for proof of it.

 (2) Whenever it is directed by this Act that the court is to presume a
fact, the court is to regard such fact as proved unless and until it is
disproved.

 (3) When one fact is declared by this Act to be conclusive proof of
another, the court is, on proof of the one fact, to regard the other as
proved, and is not to allow evidence to be given for the purpose of
disproving it.

                              Relevancy of facts

Evidence may be given of facts in issue and relevant facts

 5. Evidence may be given in any suit or proceeding of the existence
or non-existence of every fact in issue and of such other facts as are
hereinafter declared to be relevant, and of no others.

    Explanation.—This section does not enable any person to give evidence of a
fact which the person is disentitled to prove by any provision of the law for the
time being in force relating to civil procedure.

                                         Illustrations

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        14

   (a) A is tried for the murder of B by beating B with a club with the intention of
causing B’s death.

    At A’s trial the following facts are in issue:

          (i) A’s beating B with the club;

         (ii) A’s causing B’s death by such beating;

        (iii) A’s intention to cause B’s death.

    (b) A, a party to a suit, does not comply with a notice given by B, the other
party, to produce for B’s inspection a document referred to in A’s pleadings. This
section does not enable A to put such document in evidence on A’s behalf in such
suit, otherwise than in accordance with the conditions prescribed by the Rules of
Court or the Family Justice Rules, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [27/2014]

Relevancy of facts forming part of same transaction

 6. Facts which, though not in issue, are so connected with a fact in
issue as to form part of the same transaction are relevant, whether
they occurred at the same time and place or at different times and
places.

                                         Illustrations

    (a) A is accused of the murder of B by beating B. Whatever was said or done
by A or B or the bystanders at the beating or so shortly before or after it as to form
part of the transaction is a relevant fact.

    (b) A is accused of waging war against the Government by taking part in an
armed insurrection in which property is destroyed, troops are attacked and gaols
are broken open. The occurrence of these facts is relevant as forming part of the
general transaction, though A may not have been present at all of them.

    (c) A sues B for a libel contained in a letter forming part of a correspondence.
Letters between the parties relating to the subject out of which the libel arose and
forming part of the correspondence in which it is contained are relevant facts
though they do not contain the libel itself.

   (d) The question is whether certain goods ordered from B were delivered to A.
The goods were delivered to several intermediate persons successively. Each
delivery is a relevant fact.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
15  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

Facts which are the occasion, cause or effect of facts in issue

 7. Facts which are the occasion, cause or effect, immediate or
otherwise, of relevant facts or facts in issue, or which constitute the
state of things under which they happened or which afforded an
opportunity for their occurrence or transaction, are relevant.

                                        Illustrations

    (a) The question is whether A robbed B.

    The facts that shortly before the robbery B went to a fair with money in B’s
possession, and that B showed or mentioned the fact that B had it to third persons,
are relevant.

  (b) The question is whether A murdered B. Marks on the ground produced by a
struggle at or near the place where the murder was committed are relevant facts.

   (c) The question is whether A poisoned B. The state of B’s health before the
symptoms ascribed to poison and habits of B known to A which afforded an
opportunity for the administration of poison, are relevant facts.

Motive, preparation and previous or subsequent conduct

 8.—(1) Any fact is relevant which shows or constitutes a motive or
preparation for any fact in issue or relevant fact.

 (2) The conduct of any party or of any agent to any party to any suit
or proceeding in reference to such suit or proceeding or in reference
to any fact in issue therein or relevant thereto, and the conduct of any
person an offence against whom is the subject of any proceeding, is
relevant if such conduct influences or is influenced by any fact in
issue or relevant fact, and whether it was previous or subsequent
thereto.

       Explanation 1.—The word “conduct” in this section does not include
statements unless those statements accompany and explain acts other than
statements; but this explanation is not to affect the relevancy of statements under
any other section of this Act.

     Explanation 2.—When the conduct of any person is relevant any statement
made to the person or in his or her presence and hearing which affects such
conduct is relevant.

                                         Illustrations

     (a) A is tried for the murder of B.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        16

  The facts that A murdered C, that B knew that A had murdered C and that B had
tried to extort money from A by threatening to make B’s knowledge public, are
relevant.

   (b) A sues B upon a bond for the payment of money. B denies the making of
the bond.

    The fact that at the time when the bond was alleged to be made B required
money for a particular purpose is relevant.

    (c) A is tried for the murder of B by poison.

  The fact that before the death of B, A procured poison similar to that which was
administered to B is relevant.

    (d) The question is whether a certain document is the will of A.

   The facts that not long before the date of the alleged will A made inquiry into
matters to which the provisions of the alleged will relate, that A consulted
lawyers in reference to making the will, and that A caused drafts of other wills to
be prepared of which A did not approve are relevant.

    (e) A is accused of a crime.

    The facts that either before, or at the time of or after the alleged crime, A
provided evidence which would tend to give to the facts of the case an
appearance favourable to A, or that A destroyed or concealed evidence or
prevented the presence or procured the absence of persons who might have been
witnesses, or suborned persons to give false evidence respecting it, are relevant.

    (f) The question is whether A robbed B.

    The facts that after B was robbed, C said in A’s presence: “The police are
coming to look for the man who robbed B”, and that immediately afterwards A
ran away are relevant.

    (g) The question is whether A owes B $10,000.

   The facts that A asked C to lend A money, and that D said to C in A’s presence
and hearing: “I advise you not to trust A for A owes B $10,000”, and that A went
away without making any answer, are relevant facts.

    (h) The question is whether A committed a crime.

   The fact that A absconded after receiving a letter warning A that inquiry was
being made for the criminal, and the contents of the letter, are relevant.

    (i) A is accused of a crime.

  The facts that after the commission of the alleged crime A absconded, or was in
possession of property or the proceeds of property acquired by the crime, or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
17  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

attempted to conceal things which were or might have been used in committing
it, are relevant.

    (j) The question is whether A was raped.

   The facts that shortly after the alleged rape A made a complaint relating to the
crime, the circumstances under which and the terms in which the complaint was
made, are relevant.

   The fact that without making a complaint A said that she had been raped is not
relevant as conduct under this section, though it may be relevant as a dying
declaration under section 32(1)(a), or as corroborative evidence under
section 159.

    (k) The question is whether A was robbed.

   The fact that soon after the alleged robbery A made a complaint relating to the
offence, the circumstances under which and the terms in which the complaint
was made, are relevant.

   The fact that A said A had been robbed without making any complaint is not
relevant as conduct under this section, though it may be relevant as a dying
declaration under section 32(1)(a), or as corroborative evidence under
section 159.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

Facts necessary to explain or introduce relevant facts

 9. Facts necessary to explain or introduce a fact in issue or relevant
fact, or which support or rebut an inference suggested by a fact in
issue or relevant fact, or which establish the identity of any thing or
person whose identity is relevant, or fix the time or place at which any
fact in issue or relevant fact happened or which show the relation of
parties by whom any such fact was transacted, are relevant insofar as
they are necessary for that purpose.

                                         Illustrations

     (a) The question is whether a given document is the will of A.

    The state of A’s property and of A’s family at the date of the alleged will may
be relevant facts.

     (b) A sues B for libel imputing disgraceful conduct to A; B affirms that the
matter alleged to be libellous is true.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        18

     The position and relations of the parties at the time when the libel was
published may be relevant facts as introductory to the facts in issue.

   The particulars of a dispute between A and B about a matter unconnected with
the alleged libel are irrelevant, though the fact that there was a dispute may be
relevant if it affected the relations between A and B.

    (c) A is accused of a crime.

    The fact that soon after the commission of the crime A absconded from A’s
house is relevant under section 8 as conduct subsequent to and affected by facts
in issue.

   The fact that at the time when A left home A had sudden and urgent business at
the place to which A went is relevant as tending to explain the fact that A left
home suddenly.

   The details of the business on which A left are not relevant, except insofar as
they are necessary to show that the business was sudden and urgent.

   (d) A sues B for inducing C to break a contract of service made by C with A. C
on leaving A’s service says to A: “I am leaving you because B has made me a
better offer”. This statement is a relevant fact as explanatory of C’s conduct,
which is relevant as a fact in issue.

    (e) A accused of theft is seen to give the stolen property to B who is seen to
give it to A’s wife. B says as B delivers it: “A says you are to hide this”. B’s
statement is relevant as explanatory of a fact which is part of the transaction.

   (f) A is tried for a riot and is proved to have marched at the head of a mob. The
cries of the mob are relevant as explanatory of the nature of the transaction.

   (g) A seeks to adduce evidence against B in the form of an electronic record.
The method and manner in which the electronic record was (properly or
improperly) generated, communicated, received or stored (by A or B), the
reliability of the devices and the circumstances in which the devices were
(properly or improperly) used or operated to generate, communicate, receive or
store the electronic record, may be relevant facts (if the contents are relevant) as
authenticating the electronic record and therefore as explaining or introducing
the electronic record, or identifying it as the relevant electronic record to support
a finding that the record is, or is not, what its proponent A claims.

                                                                   [4/2012]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
19  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

Things said or done by conspirator in reference to common
design

 10. Where there is reasonable ground to believe that 2 or more
persons have conspired together to commit an offence or an
actionable wrong, anything said, done or written by any one of
such persons, in reference to their common intention after the time
when such intention was first entertained by any one of them, is a
relevant fact as against each of the persons believed to be so
conspiring, as well for the purpose of proving the existence of the
conspiracy as for the purpose of showing that any such person was a
party to it.

                                        Illustrations

    Reasonable ground exists for believing that A has joined in a conspiracy to
wage war against the Government.

   The facts that B procured arms in Europe for the purpose of the conspiracy, C
collected money in Malacca for a like object, D persuaded persons to join the
conspiracy in Province Wellesley, E published writings advocating the object in
view at Singapore, and F transmitted from Singapore to G at Jakarta the money
which C had collected at Malacca, and the contents of a letter written by H giving
an account of the conspiracy are each relevant, both to prove the existence of the
conspiracy and to prove A’s complicity in it, although A may have been ignorant
of all of them, and although the persons by whom they were done were strangers
to A, and although they may have taken place before A joined the conspiracy or
after A left it.

When facts not otherwise relevant become relevant

 11. Facts not otherwise relevant are relevant —

       (a) if they are inconsistent with any fact in issue or relevant
            fact;

       (b) if by themselves or in connection with other facts they
            make the existence or non-existence of any fact in issue or
            relevant fact highly probable or improbable.

                                         Illustrations

     (a) The question is whether A committed a crime at Singapore on a certain
day.

     The fact that on that day A was at Penang is relevant.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        20

   The fact that near the time when the crime was committed A was at a distance
from the place where it was committed, which would render it highly
improbable, though not impossible, that A committed it, is relevant.

    (b) The question is whether A committed a crime.

   The circumstances are such that the crime must have been committed either by
A, B, C or D. Every fact which shows that the crime could have been committed
by no one else and that it was not committed by either B, C or D is relevant.

In suits for damages facts tending to enable court to determine
amount are relevant

 12. In suits in which damages are claimed, any fact which will
enable the court to determine the amount of damages which ought to
be awarded is relevant.

Facts relevant when right or custom is in question

 13. Where the question is as to the existence of any right or custom,
the following facts are relevant:

       (a) any transaction by which the right or custom in question
            was created, claimed, modified, recognised, asserted or
            denied or which was inconsistent with its existence; and

       (b) particular instances in which the right or custom was
            claimed, recognised or exercised or in which its exercise
            was disputed, asserted or departed from.

                                          Illustration

   The question is whether A has a right to a fishery. A deed conferring the fishery
on A’s ancestors, a mortgage of the fishery by A’s father, a subsequent grant of
the fishery by A’s father irreconcilable with the mortgage, particular instances in
which A’s father exercised the right, or in which the exercise of the right was
stopped by A’s neighbours, are relevant facts.

Facts showing existence of state of mind or of body or bodily
feeling

 14. Facts showing the existence of any state of mind, such as
intention, knowledge, good faith, negligence, rashness, ill will or
goodwill towards any particular person, or showing the existence of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
21  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

any state of body or bodily feeling, are relevant when the existence of
any such state of mind or body or bodily feeling is in issue or relevant.

   Explanation 1.—A fact relevant as showing the existence of a relevant state of
mind must show that the state of mind exists not generally but in reference to the
particular matter in question.

  Explanation 2.—But where upon the trial of a person accused of an offence the
previous commission by the accused of an offence is relevant within the meaning
of this section, the previous conviction of such person is also a relevant fact.

                                        Illustrations

    (a) A is accused of receiving stolen goods, knowing them to be stolen. It is
proved that A was in possession of a particular stolen article.

   The fact that at the same time A was in possession of many other stolen articles
is relevant as tending to show that A knew each and all of the articles of which A
was in possession to be stolen.

    (b) A is accused of fraudulently delivering to another person a counterfeit
coin, which at the time when A delivered it A knew to be counterfeit.

    The fact that at the time of its delivery A was in possession of a number of
other pieces of counterfeit coin is relevant.

   The fact that A had been previously convicted of delivering to another person
as genuine a counterfeit coin, knowing it to be counterfeit, is relevant.

   (c) A sues B for damage done by a dog of B’s, which B knew to be ferocious.

   The facts that the dog had previously bitten X, Y and Z and that they had made
complaints to B are relevant.

  (d) The question is whether A, the acceptor of a bill of exchange, knew that the
name of the payee was fictitious.

   The fact that A had accepted other bills drawn in the same manner before they
could have been transmitted to A by the payee, if the payee had been a real
person, is relevant, as showing that A knew that the payee was a fictitious person.

   (e) A is accused of defaming B by publishing an imputation intended to harm
the reputation of B.

   The fact of previous publications by A respecting B showing ill will on the part
of A towards B is relevant, as proving A’sintention to harm B’s reputation by the
particular publication in question.

     The facts that there was no previous quarrel between A and B and that A
repeated the matter complained of as A heard it, are relevant as showing that A
did not intend to harm the reputation of B.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        22

     (f) A is sued by B for fraudulently representing to B that C was solvent,
whereby B being induced to trust C, who was insolvent, suffered loss.

   The fact that at the time when A represented C to be solvent C was supposed to
be solvent by his or her neighbours, and by persons dealing with him or her, is
relevant, as showing that A made the representation in good faith.

   (g) A is sued by B for the price of work done by B upon a house of which A is
owner by the order of C, a contractor.

    A’s defence is that B’s contract was with C.

   The fact that A paid C for the work in question is relevant as providing that A
did in good faith make over to C the management of the work in question, so that
C was in a position to contract with B on C’s own account and not as agent for A.

    (h) A is accused of the dishonest misappropriation of property which A had
found, and the question is whether, when A appropriated it A believed in good
faith that the real owner could not be found.

    The fact that public notice of the loss of the property had been given in the
place where A was, is relevant as showing that A did not in good faith believe that
the real owner of the property could not be found.

     The fact that A knew or had reason to believe that the notice was given
fraudulently by C who had heard of the loss of the property and wished to set up a
false claim to it, is relevant as showing that the fact that A knew of the notice did
not disprove A’s good faith.

    (i) A is charged with shooting at B with intent to kill B.

   In order to show A’s intent, the fact of A’s having previously shot at B may be
proved.

    (j) A is charged with sending threatening letters to B.

    Threatening letters previously sent by A to B may be proved as showing the
intention of the letters.

   (k) The question is whether A has been guilty of cruelty towards B his wife.

     Expression of their feelings towards each other shortly before or after the
alleged cruelty are relevant facts.

    (l) The question is whether A’s death was caused by poison.

   Statements made by A during A’s illness as to A’s symptoms are relevant facts.

    (m) The question is, what was the state of A’s health at the time when an
assurance on A’s life was effected? Statements made by A as to the state of A’s
health at or near the time in question are relevant facts.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
23  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

     (n) A sues B for negligence in providing A with a motor car for hire not
reasonably fit for use whereby A was injured.

   The fact that B’s attention was drawn on other occasions to the defect of that
particular motor car is relevant.

    The fact that B was habitually negligent about the motor cars which B let to
hire is irrelevant.

    (o) A is tried for the murder of B by intentionally shooting B dead.

  The fact that A on other occasions shot at B is relevant as showing A’s intention
to shoot B.

    The fact that A was in the habit of shooting at people with intent to murder
them is irrelevant.

    (p) A is tried for a crime.

  The fact that A said something indicating an intention to commit that particular
crime is relevant.

     The fact that A said something indicating a general disposition to commit
crimes of that class is irrelevant.

Facts bearing on question whether act was accidental or
intentional

 15. When there is a question whether an act was accidental or
intentional or done with a particular knowledge or intention, the fact
that such act formed part of a series of similar occurrences, in each of
which the person doing the act was concerned, is relevant.

                                         Illustrations

   (a) A is accused of burning down A’s house in order to obtain money for which
it is insured.

    The facts that A lived in several houses successively, each of which A insured,
in each of which a fire occurred, and after each of which fires A received payment
from a different insurance office, are relevant as tending to show that the fire was
not accidental.

     (b) A is employed to receive money from the debtors of B. It is A’s duty to
make entries in a book showing the amounts received by A. A makes an entry
showing that on a particular occasion A received less than A really did receive.

     The question is whether this false entry was accidental or intentional.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        24

   The facts that other entries made by A in the same book are false, and that the
false entry is in each case in favour of A, are relevant.

    (c) A is accused of fraudulently delivering to B a counterfeit dollar.

    The question is whether the delivery of the dollar was accidental.

      The facts that soon before or soon after the delivery to B, A delivered
counterfeit dollars to C, D and E are relevant as showing that the delivery to B
was not accidental.

Existence of course of business when relevant

 16. When there is a question whether a particular act was done, the
existence of any course of business, according to which it naturally
would have been done, is a relevant fact.

                                         Illustrations

     (a) The question is whether a particular letter was despatched.

     The facts that it was the ordinary course of business for all letters put in a
certain place to be carried to the post, and that that particular letter was put in that
place, are relevant.

     (b) The question is whether a particular letter reached A.

    The facts that it was posted in due course and was not returned are relevant.

                        Admissions and confessions

Admission and confession defined

 17.—(1) An admission is a statement, oral or documentary, which
suggests any inference as to any fact in issue or relevant fact, and
which is made by any of the persons and under the circumstances
hereinafter mentioned.

 (2) A confession is an admission made at any time by a person
accused of an offence, stating or suggesting the inference that the
person committed that offence.

Admission by party to proceeding or his or her agent, by suitor
in representative character, etc.

 18.—(1) Statements made by a party to the proceeding or by an
agent to any such party whom the court regards under the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
25  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

circumstances of the case as expressly or impliedly authorised by him
or her to make them are admissions.

 (2) Statements made by parties to suits, suing or sued in a
representative character, are not admissions unless they were made
while the party making them held that character.

(3) Statements made by —

    (a) persons who have any proprietary or pecuniary interest in
         the subject matter of the proceeding, and who make the
         statement in their character of persons so interested; or

    (b) persons from whom the parties to the suit have derived
         their interest in the subject matter of the suit,

are admissions if they are made during the continuance of the interest
of the persons making the statements.

Admissions by persons whose position must be proved as
against party to suit

 19. Statements made by persons whose position or liability it is
necessary to prove as against any party to the suit are admissions if
the statements would be relevant as against the persons in relation to
the position or liability in a suit brought by or against them, and if
they are made while the person making them occupies the position or
is subject to the liability.

                                          Illustration

     A undertakes to collect rents for B.

     B sues A for not collecting rent due from C to B.

     A denies that rent was due from C to B.

    A statement by C that he or she owed B rent is an admission and is a relevant
fact, as against A, if A denies that C did owe rent to B.

Admissions by persons expressly referred to by party to suit

 20. Statements made by persons to whom a party to the suit has
expressly referred for information in reference to a matter in dispute
are admissions.

                                          Illustration

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        26

    The question is whether a horse sold by A to B is sound.

     A says to B: “Go and ask C, C knows all about it”. C’s statement is an
admission.

Proof of admissions against persons making them and by or on
their behalf

 21. Admissions are relevant and may be proved as against the
person who makes them or his or her representative in interest; but
they cannot be proved by or on behalf of the person who makes them
or by his or her representative in interest except in the following
cases:

       (a) an admission may be proved by or on behalf of the person
            making it when it is of such a nature that, if the person
            making it were dead, it would be relevant as between third
            persons under section 32;

       (b) an admission may be proved by or on behalf of the person
            making it when it consists of a statement of the existence of
            any state of mind or body relevant or in issue, made at or
            about the time when such state of mind or body existed and
            is accompanied by conduct rendering its falsehood
            improbable;

       (c) an admission may be proved by or on behalf of the person
            making it if it is relevant otherwise than as an admission.

                                         Illustrations

   (a) The question between A and B is whether a certain deed is or is not forged.
A affirms that it is genuine; B that it is forged.

     A may prove a statement by B that the deed is genuine, and B may prove a
statement by A that the deed is forged; but A cannot prove a statement by A that
the deed is genuine, nor can B prove a statement by B that the deed is forged.

     (b) A, the captain of a ship, is tried for casting the ship away.

     Evidence is given to show that the ship was taken out of the ship’s proper
course.

    A produces a book kept by A in the ordinary course of A’s business, showing
observations alleged to have been taken by A from day to day, and indicating that
the ship was not taken out of the ship’s proper course. A may prove these

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
27  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

statements because they would be admissible between third parties if A were
dead under section 32(1)(b).

   (c) A is accused of a crime committed by A at Singapore. A produces a letter
written by A and dated at Penang on that day, and bearing the Penang postmark of
that day.

   The statement in the date of the letter is admissible, because if A were dead it
would be admissible under section 32(1)(b).

    (d) A is accused of receiving stolen goods, knowing them to be stolen.

    A offers to prove that A refused to sell them below their value.

    A may prove these statements though they are admissions, because they are
explanatory of conduct influenced by facts in issue.

    (e) A is accused of fraudulently having in A’s possession counterfeit coin
which A knew to be counterfeit.

  A offers to prove that A asked a skilful person to examine the coin as A doubted
whether it was counterfeit or not, and that that person did examine it and told A it
was genuine.

    A may prove these facts for the reasons stated in illustration (d).

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

When oral admissions as to contents of documents are relevant

 22. Oral admissions as to the contents of a document are not
relevant unless the party proposing to prove them shows that he or she
is entitled to give secondary evidence of the contents of the document
under the rules contained in this Act, or unless the genuineness of a
document produced is in question.

Admissions in civil cases when relevant

 23.—(1) In civil cases, no admission is relevant if it is made —

       (a) upon an express condition that evidence of it is not to be
            given; or

       (b) upon circumstances from which the court can infer that the
            parties agreed together that evidence of it should not be
            given.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        28

(2) Nothing in subsection (1) is to be taken —

(a) to exempt any advocate or solicitor from giving evidence
     of any matter of which he or she may be compelled to give
     evidence under section 128; or

      (b) to exempt any legal counsel in an entity from giving
           evidence of any matter of which he or she may be
           compelled to give evidence under section 128A.

                                                                                                           [4/2012]

24. to 30. [Repealed by Act 15 of 2010]

Admissions not conclusive proof but may estop

 31. Admissions are not conclusive proof of the matters admitted,
but they may operate as estoppels under the provisions in this Act.

Cases in which statement of relevant fact by person who is dead
or cannot be found, etc., is relevant

 32.—(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), statements of relevant
facts made by a person (whether orally, in a document or otherwise),
are themselves relevant facts in the following cases:

when it relates to cause of death;

 (a) when the statement is made by a person as to the cause of the
      person’s death, or as to any of the circumstances of the
      transaction which resulted in the person’s death, in cases in
      which the cause of that person’s death comes into question; such
      statements are relevant whether the person who made them was
      or was not at the time when they were made under expectation
      of death, and whatever may be the nature of the proceeding in
      which the cause of the person’s death comes into question;

or is made in course of trade, business, profession or other
occupation;

 (b) when the statement was made by a person in the ordinary course
      of a trade, business, profession or other occupation and in
      particular when it consists of —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
29  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

       (i) any entry or memorandum in books kept in the ordinary
           course of a trade, business, profession or other occupation
           or in the discharge of professional duty;

      (ii) an acknowledgment (whether written or signed) for the
           receipt of money, goods, securities or property of any
           kind;

     (iii) any information in market quotations, tabulations, lists,
           directories or other compilations generally used and relied
           upon by the public or by persons in particular occupations;
           or

     (iv) a document constituting, or forming part of, the records
           (whether past or present) of a trade, business, profession or
           other occupation that are recorded, owned or kept by any
           person, body or organisation carrying out the trade,
           business, profession or other occupation,

     and includes a statement made in a document that is, or forms
     part of, a record compiled by a person acting in the ordinary
     course of a trade, business, profession or other occupation based
     on information supplied by other persons;

or against interest of maker;

(c) when the statement is against the pecuniary or proprietary
     interest of the person making it, or when, if true, it would
     expose the person or would have exposed the person to a
     criminal prosecution or to a suit for damages;

or gives opinion as to public right or custom or matters of
general interest;

(d) when the statement gives the opinion of any such person as to
     the existence of any public right or custom or matter of public or
     general interest, of the existence of which if it existed the person
     would have been likely to be aware, and when such statement
     was made before any controversy as to such right, custom or
     matter had arisen;

or relates to existence of relationship;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        30

(e) when the statement relates to the existence of any relationship
     by blood, marriage or adoption between persons as to whose
     relationship by blood, marriage or adoption the person making
     the statement had special means of knowledge, and when the
     statement was made before the question in dispute was raised;

or is made in will or deed relating to family affairs;

(f) when the statement relates to the existence of any relationship
     by blood, marriage or adoption between persons deceased, and
     is made in any will or deed relating to the affairs of the family to
     which any such deceased person belonged, or in any family
     pedigree or upon any tombstone, family portrait or other thing
     on which such statements are usually made, and when such
     statement was made before the question in dispute was raised;

or in document relating to transaction mentioned in
section 13(a);

(g) when the statement is contained in any deed or other document
     which relates to any such transaction as is mentioned in
     section 13(a);

or is made by several persons and expresses feelings relevant to
matter in question;

(h) when the statement was made by a number of persons and
     expressed feelings or impressions on their part relevant to the
     matter in question;

or is made by person who is compellable but refuses to give
evidence;

(i) when the statement was made by a person who, being
     compellable to give evidence on behalf of the party desiring
     to give the statement in evidence, attends or is brought before
     the court, but refuses to be sworn or affirmed, or is sworn or
     affirmed but refuses to give any evidence;

or is made by person who is dead or who cannot be produced as
witness;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
31  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

(j) when the statement is made by a person in respect of whom it is
     shown —

       (i) is dead or unfit because of his or her bodily or mental
           condition to attend as a witness;

      (ii) that despite reasonable efforts to locate him or her, he or
           she cannot be found whether within or outside Singapore;

     (iii) that he or she is outside Singapore and it is not practicable
           to secure his or her attendance; or

     (iv) that, being competent but not compellable to give
           evidence on behalf of the party desiring to give the
           statement in evidence, he or she refuses to do so;

or by agreement.

(k) when the parties to the proceedings agree that for the purpose of
     those proceedings the statement may be given in evidence.

                                        Illustrations

    (a) The question is whether A was murdered by B.

    A dies of injuries received in a transaction in the course of which she was
raped.

    The question is whether A was raped by B; or

   The question is whether A was killed by B under such circumstances that a suit
would lie against B by A’s widow.

   Statements made by A as to the cause of his or her death, referring respectively
to the murder, the rape and the actionable wrong under consideration, are
relevant facts.

    (b) The question is as to the date of A’s birth.

    An entry in the diary of a deceased surgeon regularly kept in the course of
business, stating that on a given day he or she attended A’s mother and delivered
her of a son, is a relevant fact.

    (c) The question is whether A was in Singapore on a given day.

   A statement in the diary of a deceased solicitor regularly kept in the course of
business that on a given day the solicitor attended A at a place mentioned in
Singapore for the purpose of conferring with A upon specified business is a
relevant fact.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        32

   (d) The question is whether a ship sailed from Singapore harbour on a given
day.

   A letter written by a deceased member of a merchant’s firm by which the ship
was chartered to their correspondents in London, to whom the cargo was
consigned, stating that the ship sailed on a given day from Singapore harbour is a
relevant fact.

    (e) The question is whether rent was paid to A for certain land.

   A letter from A’s deceased agent to B, saying that the agent had received the
rent on A’s account and held it at A’s orders, is a relevant fact.

    (f) The question is whether A and B were legally married.

     The statement of a deceased clergyman that he married them under such
circumstances that the celebration would be a crime is relevant.

   (g) The question is whether A, a person who cannot be found, wrote a letter on
a certain day.

    The fact that a letter written by A is dated on that day is relevant.

    (h) The question is, what was the cause of the wreck of a ship?

    A protest made by the captain, whose attendance cannot be procured, is a
relevant fact.

   (i) The question is, what was the price of shares on a certain day in a particular
market?

   A statement of the price made by a deceased broker in the ordinary course of
his or her business is a relevant fact.

    (j) The question is whether A, who is dead, was the father of B.

    A statement by A that B was his son is a relevant fact.

    (k) The question is, what was the date of the birth of A?

    A letter from A’s deceased father to a friend, announcing the birth of A on a
given day, is a relevant fact.

    (l) The question is whether and when A and B were married.

     An entry in a memorandum-book by C, the deceased father of B, of his
daughter’s marriage with A on a given date, is a relevant fact.

     (m) A sues B for a libel expressed in a printed caricature exposed in a
shop‑window. The question is as to the similarity of the caricature and its
libellous character.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
33  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

    The remarks of a crowd of spectators on these points may be proved.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (2) For the purposes of paragraph (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i) or
(j) of subsection (1), where a person makes an oral statement to or in
the hearing of another person who, at the request of the maker of the
statement, puts it (or the substance of it) into writing at the time or
reasonably soon afterwards, thereby producing a corresponding
statement in a document, the statement in the document is to be
treated for the purposes of those paragraphs as the statement of the
maker of the oral statement.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (3) A statement which is otherwise relevant under subsection (1) is
not relevant if the court is of the view that it would not be in the
interests of justice to treat it as relevant.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (4) Except in the case of subsection (1)(k), evidence may not be
given under subsection (1) on behalf of a party to the proceedings
unless that party complies —

       (a) in the case of criminal proceedings, with such notice
            requirements and other conditions as may be prescribed by
            the Minister under section 428 of the Criminal Procedure
            Code 2010; and

       (b) in all other proceedings, with such notice requirements and
            other conditions as may be prescribed in the Rules of Court
            or the Family Justice Rules.

                                                                                                 [4/2012; 27/2014]

 (5) Where a statement is admitted in evidence under subsection (1),
the court shall assign such weight as it deems fit to the statement.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (6) Despite paragraph (k) of subsection (1), an agreement under that
paragraph does not enable a statement to be given in evidence in
criminal proceedings on the prosecution’s behalf unless at the time
the agreement is made, the accused or any of the co‑accused is
represented by an advocate.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        34

 (7) Despite paragraph (k) of subsection (1), an agreement under that
paragraph is of no effect for the purposes of any proceedings before
the General Division of the High Court or any proceedings arising out
of proceedings before the General Division of the High Court if made
during proceedings before an examining Magistrate conducting a
committal hearing under Division 2 of Part 10 of the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010 as in force immediately before 17 September
2018.

                                                                                     [4/2012; 19/2018; 40/2019]

Protest, greeting, etc., treated as stating fact that utterance
implies

 32A. For the purposes of section 32(1), a protest, greeting or other
verbal utterance may be treated as stating any fact that the utterance
implies.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

Statement of opinion

 32B.—(1) Subject to this section, section 32 applies to statements
of opinion as they apply to statements of fact.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (2) A statement of opinion is only admissible under section 32(1) if
that statement would be admissible in those proceedings if made
through direct oral evidence.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (3) Where a person is called as a witness in any proceedings, a
statement of opinion by him or her on a relevant matter on which he
or she is not qualified to give expert evidence, if made as a way of
conveying relevant facts personally perceived by him or her, is
admissible as evidence of what he or she perceived.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

Admissibility of evidence as to credibility of maker, etc., of
statement admitted under certain provisions

 32C.—(1) Where in any proceedings a statement made by a person
who is not called as a witness in those proceedings is given in
evidence by virtue of section 32(1) —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
35  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

    (a) any evidence which, if that person had been so called,
         would be admissible for the purpose of undermining or
         supporting that person’s credibility as a witness, is
         admissible for that purpose in those proceedings; and

       (b) as regards any matter which, if that person had been so
            called, could have been put to him or her in
            cross‑examination for the purpose of undermining his or
            her credibility as a witness, being a matter of which, if he
            or she had denied it, evidence could not have been adduced
            by the cross‑examining party, evidence of that matter may
            with the permission of the court be given for that purpose.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (2) Where in any proceedings a statement made by a person who is
not called as a witness in those proceedings is given in evidence by
virtue of section 32(1), evidence tending to prove that, whether before
or after he or she made that statement, he or she made another
statement (orally, written or otherwise) inconsistent with the
firstmentioned statement is admissible for the purpose of showing
that the person has contradicted himself or herself.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (3) For the purposes of section 32(1)(b), subsections (1) and (2)
apply in relation to both the maker of the statement and the person
who originally supplied the information from which the statement
was made.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (4) Section 32(2) applies for the purposes of this section as it
applies for the purposes of section 32(1).

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

Relevancy of certain evidence for proving in subsequent
proceeding the truth of facts therein stated

 33. Evidence given by a witness in a judicial proceeding, or before
any person authorised by law to take it, is relevant for the purpose of
proving in a subsequent judicial proceeding, or in a later stage of the
same judicial proceeding, the truth of the facts which it states, when
the witness is dead or cannot be found or is incapable of giving

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        36

evidence, or is kept out of the way by the adverse party, or if the
witness’s presence cannot be obtained without an amount of delay or
expense which under the circumstances of the case the court
considers unreasonable subject to the following provisions:

       (a) the proceeding was between the same parties or their
            representatives in interest;

       (b) the adverse party in the first proceeding had the right and
            opportunity to cross-examine;

       (c) the questions in issue were substantially the same in the
            first as in the second proceeding.

      Explanation.—A criminal trial or inquiry is deemed to be a proceeding
between the prosecutor and the accused within the meaning of this section.

             Statements made under special circumstances

Entries in books of accounts when relevant

 34. Entries in books of accounts regularly kept in the course of
business are relevant whenever they refer to a matter into which the
court has to inquire, but such statements are not alone sufficient
evidence to charge any person with liability.

                                          Illustration

   A sues B for $1,000 and shows entries in his or her account books showing B to
be indebted to A to this amount. The entries are relevant, but are not sufficient
without other evidence to prove the debt.

35. [Repealed by Act 4 of 2012]
36. [Repealed by Act 4 of 2012]

Rules for filing and receiving evidence and documents in court
by using information technology

 36A.—(1) The Rules Committee constituted under the Supreme
Court of Judicature Act 1969, and the Family Justice Rules
Committee constituted under the Family Justice Act 2014, may
make rules to provide for the filing, receiving and recording of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
37  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

evidence and documents in court by the use of information
technology in such form, manner or method as may be prescribed.

                                                                                                           [27/2014]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), such rules may —

    (a) modify such provisions of this Act as may be necessary for
         the purpose of facilitating the use of electronic filing of
         documents in court;

    (b) provide for the burden of proof and rebuttable
         presumptions in relation to the identity and authority of
         the person sending or filing the evidence or documents by
         the use of information technology; and

    (c) provide for the authentication of evidence and documents
        filed or received by the use of information technology.

Relevancy of entry in public record made in performance of
duty

 37. An entry in any public or other official book, register or record,
stating a fact in issue or relevant fact and made by a public officer in
the discharge of his or her official duty or by any other person in
performance of a duty specially enjoined by the law of the country in
which such book, register or record is kept, is itself a relevant fact.

Relevancy of statements in maps, charts and plans

 38. Statements of facts in issue or relevant facts made in published
maps or charts generally offered for public sale, or in maps or plans
made under the authority of Government as to matters usually
represented or stated in such maps, charts or plans, are themselves
relevant facts.

Relevancy of statement as to fact of public nature contained in
certain Ordinances, Acts or notifications

 39. When the court has to form an opinion as to the existence of any
fact of a public nature, any statement of it made in a recital contained
in —

       (a) any Act or Ordinance;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.             Evidence Act 1893                             38

(b) any legislation enacted by the Parliament of Malaysia or by
     the legislature of any part of the Commonwealth;

          (c) any legislation enacted by the legislature of any State of
              Malaysia; or

(d) any document purporting to be —

          (i) the Government Gazette;

          (ii) the London Gazette; or

          (iii) the Gazette printed under the authority of the
                Government of Malaysia or of any State thereof or
                of the government of any other part of the
                Commonwealth including, where such part is
                under both a central government and a local
                government, any such local government,

is a relevant fact.

                                        [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

Relevancy of statements as to any law contained in law books

 40. When the court has to form an opinion as to a law of any
country, any statement of the law contained in a book purporting to be
printed or published under the authority of the government of the
country, and to contain any such law, and any report of a ruling of the
courts of the country contained in a book purporting to be a report of
the rulings, is relevant.

                How much of a statement is to be proved

What evidence to be given when statement forms part of
conversation, document, book or series of letters or papers

 41. When any statement of which evidence is given forms part of a
longer statement or of a conversation, or part of an isolated document
or is contained in a document which forms part of a book or of a
connected series of letters or papers, evidence is to be given of so
much and no more of the statement, conversation, document, book or
series of letters or papers as the court considers necessary in that
particular case to the full understanding of the nature and effect of the
statement and of the circumstances under which it was made.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
39  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

    Judgments of courts of justice when relevant

Previous judgments relevant to bar a second suit or trial

 42. The existence of any judgment, order or decree which by law
prevents any court from taking cognizance of a suit or holding a trial
is a relevant fact when the question is whether the court ought to take
cognizance of the suit or to hold the trial.

Relevancy of certain judgments in probate, etc., jurisdiction

 43.—(1) A final judgment, order or decree of a competent court, in
the exercise of probate, matrimonial, admiralty or bankruptcy
jurisdiction, which confers upon or takes away from any person
any legal character, or which declares any person to be entitled to any
such character, or to be entitled to any specific thing, not as against
any specified person but absolutely, is relevant when the existence of
any such legal character or the title of any such person to any such
thing is relevant.

 (2) Such judgment, order or decree is conclusive proof —

       (a) that any legal character which it confers accrued at the time
            when such judgment, order or decree came into operation;

       (b) that any legal character to which it declares any such
            person to be entitled accrued to that person at the time
            when such judgment, order or decree declares it to have
            accrued to that person;

       (c) that any legal character which it takes away from any such
            person ceased at the time from which such judgment, order
            or decree declared that it had ceased or should cease; and

       (d) that anything to which it declares any person to be so
            entitled was the property of that person at the time from
            which such judgment, order or decree declares that it had
            been or should be that person’s property.

Relevancy and effect of judgments, orders or decrees other
than those mentioned in section 43

 44. Judgments, orders or decrees other than those mentioned in
section 43 are relevant if they relate to matters of a public nature

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        40

relevant to the inquiry; but such judgments, orders or decrees are not
conclusive proof of that which they state.

                                         Illustration

    A sues B for trespass on A’s land. B alleges the existence of a public right of
way over the land which A denies.

   The existence of a decree in favour of the defendant in a suit by A against C for
a trespass on the same land in which C alleged the existence of the same right of
way is relevant, but it is not conclusive proof that the right of way exists.

Judgments, etc., other than those mentioned in sections 42, 43
and 44 when relevant

 45. Judgments, orders or decrees other than those mentioned in
sections 42, 43 and 44 are irrelevant unless the existence of such
judgment, order or decree is a fact in issue or is relevant under some
other provision of this Act.

                                         Illustrations

    (a) A and B separately sue C for a libel which reflects upon each of them. C in
each case says that the matter alleged to be libellous is true, and the
circumstances are such that it is probably true in each case or in neither.

    A obtains a decree against C for damages on the ground that C failed to make
out C’s justification. The fact is irrelevant as between B and C.

     (b) [Deleted by Act 15 of 2019]

    (c) A has obtained a decree for the possession of land against B. C, B’s son,
murders A in consequence.

     The existence of the judgment is relevant as showing motive for a crime.

   (d) A is charged with theft and with having been previously convicted of theft.

     The previous conviction is relevant as a fact in issue.

   (e) A is tried for the murder of B. The fact that B prosecuted A for libel and that
A was convicted and sentenced is relevant under section 8 as showing the motive
for the fact in issue.

                                                                   [15/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
41  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

Relevance of convictions and acquittals

 45A.—(1) Without affecting sections 42, 43, 44 and 45, the fact that
a person has been convicted or acquitted of an offence by or before
any court in Singapore is admissible in evidence for the purpose of
proving, where relevant to any issue in the proceedings, that the
person committed (or, as the case may be, did not commit) that
offence, whether or not the person is a party to the proceedings; and
where the person was convicted, whether the person was so convicted
upon a plea of guilty or otherwise.

 (2) A conviction referred to in subsection (1) is relevant and
admissible unless —

    (a) it is subject to review or appeal that has not yet been
         determined;

    (b) it has been quashed or set aside; or

    (c) a pardon has been given in respect of it.

 (3) A person proved to have been convicted of an offence under this
section is, unless the contrary is proved, taken to have committed the
acts and to have possessed the state of mind (if any) which at law
constitute that offence.

 (4) Any conviction or acquittal admissible under this section may
be proved by a certificate of conviction or acquittal, signed by the
Registrar of the Supreme Court, the registrar of the State Courts or the
registrar of the Family Justice Courts (as the case may be), giving the
substance and effect of the charge and of the conviction or acquittal.

                                                                                                 [5/2014; 27/2014]

 (5) Where relevant, any document containing details of the
information, complaint, charge, agreed statement of facts or record
of proceedings on which the person in question is convicted is
admissible in evidence.

 (6) The method of proving a conviction or acquittal under this
section is in addition to any other authorised manner of proving a
conviction or acquittal.

 (7) In any criminal proceedings, this section is subject to any
written law or any other rule of law to the effect that a conviction is

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.               Evidence Act 1893                           42

not admissible to prove a tendency or disposition on the part of the
accused to commit the kind of offence with which the accused has
been charged.

(8) In this section —

“registrar of the Family Justice Courts” includes the deputy
   registrar or an assistant registrar of the Family Justice Courts;

“registrar of the State Courts” includes a deputy registrar of the
   State Courts;

“Registrar of the Supreme Court” includes the Deputy Registrar
   or an Assistant Registrar of the Supreme Court.

                                                                                                   [27/2014]

Fraud or collusion in obtaining judgment or incompetency of
court may be proved

 46. Any party to a suit or other proceeding may show that any
judgment, order or decree which is relevant under section 42, 43 or
44, and which has been proved by the adverse party, was delivered by
a court not competent to deliver it or was obtained by fraud or
collusion.

                Opinions of third persons when relevant

Opinions of experts

 47.—(1) Subject to subsection (4), when the court is likely to derive
assistance from an opinion upon a point of scientific, technical or
other specialised knowledge, the opinions of experts upon that point
are relevant facts.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (2) An expert is a person with such scientific, technical or other
specialised knowledge based on training, study or experience.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (3) The opinion of an expert is not irrelevant merely because the
opinion or part of the opinion relates to a matter of common
knowledge.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
43  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

 (4) An opinion which is otherwise relevant under subsection (1) is
not relevant if the court is of the view that it would not be in the
interests of justice to treat it as relevant.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

Facts bearing upon opinions of experts

 48. Facts not otherwise relevant are relevant if they support or are
inconsistent with the opinions of experts when such opinions are
relevant.

                                        Illustrations

    (a) The question is whether A was poisoned by a certain poison.

   The fact that other persons who were poisoned by that poison exhibited certain
symptoms, which experts affirm or deny to be the symptoms of that poison, is
relevant.

   (b) The question is whether an obstruction to a harbour is caused by a certain
seawall.

   The fact that other harbours similarly situated in other respects but where there
were no such seawalls began to be obstructed at about the same time is relevant.

Opinion as to handwriting when relevant

 49. When the court has to form an opinion as to the person by whom
any document was written or signed, the opinion of any person
acquainted with the handwriting of the person by whom it is supposed
to be written or signed, that it was or was not written or signed by that
person, is a relevant fact.

      Explanation.—A person is said to be acquainted with the handwriting of
another person when he or she has seen that person write, or when he or she has
received documents purporting to be written by that person in answer to
documents written by himself or herself or under his or her authority and
addressed to that person, or when, in the ordinary course of business, documents
purporting to be written by that person have been habitually submitted to him or
her.

                                         Illustrations

    The question is whether a given letter is in the handwriting of A, a merchant in
London.

      B is a merchant in Singapore, who has written letters addressed to A and
received letters purporting to be written by A. C is B’s clerk, whose duty it was to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        44

examine and file B’s correspondence. D is B’s broker, to whom B habitually
submitted the letters purporting to be written by A, for the purpose of advising
him or her thereon.

     The opinions of B, C and D on the question whether the letter is in the
handwriting of A are relevant, though neither B, C nor D ever saw A write.

Opinion as to existence of right or custom when relevant

 50. When the court has to form an opinion as to the existence of any
general custom or right, the opinions as to the existence of such
custom or right of persons who would be likely to know of its
existence, if it existed, are relevant.

    Explanation.—“General custom or right” includes customs or rights common
to any considerable class of persons.

                                          Illustration

     The right of the inhabitants of a particular kampong to use the water of a
particular well is a general right within the meaning of this section.

Opinion as to usages, tenets, etc., when relevant

 51. When the court has to form an opinion as to —

       (a) the usages and tenets of any body of men or family;

       (b) the constitution and government of any religious or
            charitable foundation; or

       (c) the meaning of words or terms used in particular districts
            or by particular classes of people,

the opinions of persons having special means of knowledge thereon
are relevant facts.

Opinion on relationship when relevant

 52.—(1) When the court has to form an opinion as to the
relationship of one person to another, the opinion expressed by
conduct as to the existence of such relationship of any person who as
a member of the family or otherwise has special means of knowledge
on the subject is a relevant fact.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
45  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

 (2) Such opinion is not sufficient to prove a marriage in
prosecutions under section 6A of the Women’s Charter 1961.

                                        Illustrations

    (a) The question is whether A and B were married.

  The fact that they were usually received and treated by their friends as husband
and wife is relevant.

    (b) The question is whether A was a legitimate son of B.

     The fact that A was always treated as such by members of the family is
relevant.

                                                                                                [51/2007; 15/2019]

Grounds of opinion when relevant
 53. Whenever the opinion of any living person is relevant, the

grounds on which such opinion is based are also relevant.

                                          Illustration
   An expert may give an account of experiments performed by him or her for the
purpose of forming his or her opinion.

                          Character when relevant

In civil cases character to prove conduct imputed irrelevant

 54. In civil cases the fact that the character of any person concerned
is such as to render probable or improbable any conduct imputed to
him or her is irrelevant, except insofar as such character appears from
facts otherwise relevant.

In criminal cases previous good character relevant

 55. In criminal proceedings, the fact that the person accused is of a
good character is relevant.

Admissibility of evidence and questions about accused’s
disposition or reputation

 56.—(1) In any criminal proceedings, the accused may —

       (a) personally or by his or her advocate ask questions of any
            witness with a view to establishing directly or by

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        46

          implication that he or she is generally or in a particular
          respect a person of good disposition or reputation;

(b) himself or herself give evidence tending to establish
     directly or by implication that he or she is generally or
     in a particular respect such a person; or

          (c) call a witness to give any such evidence.

 (2) Where any of the things mentioned in subsection (1) has been
done, the prosecution may call, and any person jointly charged with
the accused may call or himself or herself give, evidence to establish
that the accused is a person of bad disposition or reputation, and the
prosecution or any person so charged may in cross‑examining any
witness (including, where he or she gives evidence, the accused) ask
him or her questions with a view to establishing that fact.

 (3) Where by virtue of this section a party is entitled to call
evidence to establish that the accused is a person of bad disposition or
reputation, that party may call evidence of the accused’s previous
convictions, if any, whether or not that party calls any other evidence
for that purpose.

 (4) Where by virtue of this section a party is entitled in
cross‑examining the accused to ask him or her questions with a
view to establishing that he or she is such a person, section 122(4)
does not apply in relation to his or her cross‑examination by that
party.

Character as affecting damages

 57. In civil cases, the fact that the character of any person is such as
to affect the amount of damages which the person ought to receive is
relevant.

     Explanation.—In sections 54, 55, 56 and 57, the word “character” includes
both reputation and disposition; but, except as provided in section 56, evidence
may be given only of general reputation and general disposition, and not of
particular acts by which reputation or disposition are shown.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
47  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

    PART 2

    PROOF

    Facts which need not be proved

Fact judicially noticeable need not be proved

 58. No fact of which the court will take judicial notice need be
proved.

Facts of which court must take judicial notice

 59.—(1) The court is to take judicial notice of the following facts:

       (a) all laws or rules having the force of law now or heretofore
            in force or hereafter to be in force in Singapore, including
            all Acts passed or hereafter to be passed by Parliament;

       (b) all Acts passed or hereafter to be passed by the legislature
            of any country within the Commonwealth;

       (c) articles of war for the armed forces of Singapore or any
            visiting forces lawfully present in Singapore;

       (d) the course of proceedings of Parliament and of the
            legislature of any country within the Commonwealth;

       (e) the election of the President and the appointment of any
            person to exercise the functions of the President;

        (f) the public seal, the seal of the President, the seals of all the
            courts in Singapore, the seals of notaries public, all seals
            that any person is authorised to use by any law in force for
            the time being in Singapore, and all seals of which English
            courts take judicial notice;

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2022 wef 01/08/2023]

       (g) the appointment, accession to office, names, titles,
            functions and signatures of the persons filling for the
            time being any public office in Singapore, if the fact of
            their appointment to such office is notified in the Gazette;

       (h) the existence, title and national flag of every State or
            Sovereign recognised by the Government;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        48

          (i) the ordinary course of nature, natural and artificial
              divisions of time, the geographical divisions of the
              world, the meaning of English words, and public
              festivals, fasts and holidays notified in the Gazette;

          (j) the countries in the Commonwealth;

          (k) the commencement, continuance and termination of
              hostilities between Singapore or any other part of the
              Commonwealth and any other country or body of persons;

          (l) the names of the members and officers of the court and of
              their deputies and subordinate officers and assistants, and
              also of all officers acting in execution of its process, and of
              all advocates and solicitors and other persons authorised by
              law to appear or act before it;

(m) the rule of the road on land or at sea;

       (n) all other matters which it is directed by any written law to
            notice.

                                                                                                           [16/2016]

 (2) In all these cases, and also on all matters of public history,
literature, science or art, the court may resort for its aid to appropriate
books or documents of reference.

 (3) If the court is called upon by any person to take judicial notice of
any fact, the court may refuse to do so unless such person produces
any such book or document as it considers necessary to enable it to do
so.

Facts admitted need not be proved

 60.—(1) No fact need be proved in any proceeding which the
parties to the proceeding or their agents agree to admit at the hearing
or which before the hearing they agree to admit by any writing under
their hands, or which by any rule of pleading in force at the time they
are deemed to have admitted by their pleadings.

 (2) The court may, in its discretion, require the facts admitted to be
proved otherwise than by such admissions.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
49  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

    Oral evidence

Proof of facts by oral evidence

 61. All facts, except the contents of documents, may be proved by
oral evidence.

Oral evidence must be direct

 62.—(1) Oral evidence must in all cases be direct —

       (a) if it refers to a fact which could be seen, it must be the
            evidence of a witness who says he or she saw that fact;

       (b) if it refers to a fact which could be heard, it must be the
            evidence of a witness who says he or she heard that fact;

       (c) if it refers to a fact which could be perceived by any other
            sense or in any other manner, it must be the evidence of a
            witness who says he or she perceived that fact by that sense
            or in that manner;

       (d) if it refers to an opinion or to the grounds on which that
            opinion is held, it must be the evidence of the person who
            holds that opinion on those grounds.

 (2) The opinions of experts expressed in any treatise commonly
offered for sale and the grounds on which such opinions are held may
be proved by the production of such treatise if the author is dead or
cannot be found or has become incapable of giving evidence or
cannot be called as a witness without an amount of delay or expense
which the court regards as unreasonable.

 (3) If oral evidence refers to the existence or condition of any
material thing other than a document, the court may, if it thinks fit,
require the production of such material thing for its inspection.

Evidence through live video or live television links, etc.

 62A.—(1) Despite any other provision of this Act, a person may,
with permission of the court, give evidence through a live video or
live television link in any proceedings, other than proceedings in a
criminal matter or proceedings for contempt of court, if —

       (a) the witness is below 18 years of age;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        50

(b) it is expressly agreed between the parties to the
     proceedings that evidence may be so given;

          (c) the witness is outside Singapore; or

       (d) the court is satisfied that it is expedient in the interests of
            justice to do so.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (2) In considering whether to grant permission for a witness outside
Singapore to give evidence by live video or live television link under
this section, the court is to have regard to all the circumstances of the
case including the following:

(a) the reasons for the witness being unable to give evidence in
     Singapore;

       (b) the administrative and technical facilities and
            arrangements made at the place where the witness is to
            give his or her evidence;

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

       (c) whether any party to the proceedings would be unfairly
            prejudiced;

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

       (d) any other matter prescribed by rules made under
            subsection (9).

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (3) The court may, in granting permission under subsection (1),
make an order on all or any of the following matters:

(a) the persons who may be present at the place where the
     witness is giving evidence;

(b) that a person be excluded from the place while the witness
     is giving evidence;

          (c) the persons in the courtroom who must be able to be heard,
              or seen and heard, by the witness and by the persons with
              the witness;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
51  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

    (d) the persons in the courtroom who must not be able to be
         heard, or seen and heard, by the witness and by the persons
         with the witness;

    (e) the persons in the courtroom who must be able to see and
        hear the witness and the persons with the witness;

    (f) the stages in the proceedings during which a specified part
        of the order is to have effect;

    (g) the method of operation of the live video or live television
         link system including compliance with such minimum
         technical standards as may be determined by the Chief
         Justice;

       (h) any other order the court considers necessary in the
            interests of justice.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (4) The court may revoke, suspend or vary an order made under this
section if —

    (a) the live video or live television link system stops working
         and it would cause unreasonable delay to wait until a
         working system becomes available;

    (b) it is necessary for the court to do so to comply with its duty
         to ensure that the proceedings are conducted fairly to the
         parties thereto;

    (c) it is necessary for the court to do so, so that the witness can
        identify a person or a thing or so that the witness can
        participate in or view a demonstration or an experiment;

    (d) it is necessary for the court to do so because part of the
         proceedings is being heard outside a courtroom;

                                                                        [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

    (e) there has been a material change in the circumstances after
         the court has made an order; or

                                                                        [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

    (f) any conditions prescribed by rules made under
         subsection (9) for the purposes of this subsection are met.

                                                                        [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        52

 (5) The court is not to make an order under this section, or include a
particular provision in such an order, if to do so would be inconsistent
with the court’s duty to ensure that the proceedings are conducted
fairly to the parties to the proceedings.

 (5A) In making any order under this section, or any particular
provision in such an order, a court is to have regard to matters
prescribed by rules made under subsection (9).

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (6) An order made under this section does not cease to have effect
merely because the person in respect of whom it was made attains
18 years of age before the proceedings in which it was made are
finally determined.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (6A) Despite any provision of this Act and this section, the parties
in any civil proceedings may, with the express agreement of all the
parties to the proceedings pursuant to section 11(3)(b) of the Family
Justice Act 2014, section 8(3)(b) of the State Courts Act 1970* or
section 8A(3)(b) of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969*, apply
for permission of the court for a witness to give evidence through a
live audio link only, and the application must describe the
arrangements that the parties have agreed to put in place to ensure
the integrity and quality of the evidence to be given by the witness.

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (7) Evidence given by a witness, whether in Singapore or
elsewhere, through a live video or live television link by virtue of
this section, or through a live audio link (without an accompanying
live video link or live television link) by virtue of subsection (6A), is
deemed for the purposes of sections 193, 194, 195, 196 and 205 of the
Penal Code 1871 as having been given in the proceedings in which it
is given.

                                                                                                           [15/2019]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (8) Where a witness gives evidence in accordance with this section,
the witness is, for the purposes of this Act, deemed to be giving
evidence in the presence of the court.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
53  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

 (9) The Rules Committee constituted under the Supreme Court of
Judicature Act 1969, and the Family Justice Rules Committee
constituted under the Family Justice Act 2014, may make such rules
as appear to it to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of giving
effect to this section and for prescribing anything which may be
prescribed under this section.

                                                                                                           [27/2014]

 (10) In this section, “live video or live television link” means a live
video or live television link that is created using an electronic
communication technology approved by the Chief Justice.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2021]

                           Documentary evidence

Proof of contents of documents

 63. The contents of documents may be proved by primary or by
secondary evidence.

Primary evidence

 64. Primary evidence means the document itself produced for the
inspection of the court.

    Explanation 1.—Where a document is executed in several parts, each part is
primary evidence of the document.

   Where a document is executed in counterpart, each counterpart being executed
by one or some of the parties only, each counterpart is primary evidence as
against the parties executing it.

    Explanation 2.—Where a number of documents are all made by one uniform
process, as in the case of printing, lithography or photography, each is primary
evidence of the contents of the rest; but where they are all copies of a common
original they are not primary evidence of the contents of the original.

                                          Illustration

     A person is shown to have been in possession of a number of placards, all
printed at one time from one original. Any one of the placards is primary
evidence of the contents of any other, but no one of them is primary evidence of
the contents of the original.

   Explanation 3.—Despite Explanation 2, if a copy of a document in the form of
an electronic record is shown to reflect that document accurately, then the copy is
primary evidence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        54

                                        Illustrations

   (a) An electronic record, which has been manifestly or consistently acted on,
relied upon, or used as the information recorded or stored on the computer
system (the document), is primary evidence of that document.

   (b) If the electronic record has not been manifestly or consistently acted on,
relied upon, or used as a record of the information in the document, the electronic
record may be a copy of the document and treated as secondary evidence of that
document.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

Secondary evidence

 65. Secondary evidence means and includes —

       (a) certified copies given under the provisions hereinafter
            contained;

       (b) except for copies referred to in Explanation 3 to section 64,
            copies made from the original by electronic,
            electrochemical, chemical, magnetic, mechanical,
            optical, telematic or other technical processes, which in
            themselves ensure the accuracy of the copy, and copies
            compared with such copies;

       (c) copies made from or compared with the original;

       (d) counterparts of documents as against the parties who did
            not execute them;

       (e) oral accounts of the contents of a document given by some
            person who has himself or herself seen it.

                                         Illustrations

    (a) A photograph of an original is secondary evidence of its contents, though
the 2 have not been compared, if it is proved that the thing photographed was the
original.

    (b) A copy compared with a copy of a letter made by a copying machine is
secondary evidence of the contents of the letter if it is shown that the copy made
by the copying machine was made from the original.

     (c) [Deleted by Act 4 of 2012]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
55  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

   (d) A copy transcribed from a copy but afterwards compared with the original
is secondary evidence, but the copy not so compared is not secondary evidence
of the original, although the copy from which it was transcribed was compared
with the original.

   (e) Neither an oral account of a copy compared with the original nor an oral
account of a photograph or machine‑copy of the original is secondary evidence
of the original.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

Proof of documents by primary evidence
 66. Documents must be proved by primary evidence except in the

cases mentioned in section 67.

Cases in which secondary evidence relating to documents may
be given

 67.—(1) Secondary evidence may be given of the existence,
condition or contents of a document admissible in evidence in the
following cases:

       (a) when the original is shown or appears to be in the
            possession or power of —

               (i) the person against whom the document is sought to
                   be proved;

              (ii) any person out of reach of or not subject to the
                   process of the court; or

             (iii) any person legally bound to produce it,

       (a) and when, after the notice mentioned in section 68, such
            person does not produce it;

       (b) when the existence, condition or contents of the original
            have been proved to be admitted in writing by the person
            against whom it is proved or by his or her representative in
            interest;

       (c) when the original has been destroyed or lost, or when the
            party offering evidence of its contents cannot for any other

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        56

          reason not arising from his or her own default or neglect
          produce it in reasonable time;

(d) when the original is of such a nature as not to be easily
     movable;

          (e) when the original is a public document within the meaning
              of section 76;

          (f) when the original is a document of which a certified copy is
              permitted by this Act or by any other law in force for the
              time being in Singapore to be given in evidence;

(g) when the originals consist of numerous accounts or other
     documents which cannot conveniently be examined in
     court, and the fact to be proved is the general result of the
     whole collection.

 (2) In cases (a), (c) and (d) in subsection (1), any secondary
evidence of the contents of the document is admissible.

 (3) In case (b) in subsection (1), the written admission is
admissible.

 (4) In case (e) or (f) in subsection (1), a certified copy of the
document but no other kind of secondary evidence is admissible.

 (5) In case (g) in subsection (1), evidence may be given as to the
general result of the documents by any person who has examined
them and who is skilled in the examination of such documents.

Proof of documents in certain cases

 67A. Where in any proceedings a statement in a document is
admissible in evidence by virtue of section 32(1), it may be proved by
the production of that document or (whether or not that document is
still in existence) by the production of a copy of that document, or of
the material part of it, authenticated in a manner approved by the
court.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

Rules as to notice to produce

 68.—(1) Secondary evidence of the contents of the documents
referred to in section 67(1)(a) shall not be given unless the party

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
57  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

proposing to give such secondary evidence has previously given to
the party in whose possession or power the document is, or to that
party’s solicitor, such notice to produce it as is prescribed by law; and
if no notice is prescribed by law, then such notice as the court
considers reasonable under the circumstances of the case.

 (2) The notice mentioned in subsection (1) is not required in order
to render secondary evidence admissible in any of the following cases
or in any other case in which the court thinks fit to dispense with it:

    (a) when the document to be proved is itself a notice;

    (b) when from the nature of the case the adverse party must
         know that the adverse party will be required to produce it;

    (c) when it appears or is proved that the adverse party has
        obtained possession of the original by fraud or force;

    (d) when the adverse party or the adverse party’s agent has the
         original in court;

    (e) when the adverse party or the adverse party’s agent has
        admitted the loss of the document;

    (f) when the person in possession of the document is out of
        reach of or not subject to the process of the court.

Manner of giving voluminous or complex evidence

 68A.—(1) Evidence may be given in the form of charts, summaries
or other explanatory material, in electronic or other medium, if it
appears to the court that —

       (a) the materials would be likely to aid the court’s
            comprehension of other evidence which is relevant and
            admissible according to the provisions of this Act or any
            other written law; and

       (b) the evidence that is to be given by any party is so
            voluminous or complex that the court considers it
            convenient to assess the evidence by reference to such
            materials.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        58

 (2) Any fact or opinion asserted in any material referred to in
subsection (1) must be proved by relevant and admissible evidence,
and if such fact or opinion is one that is admissible only on the proof
of some other fact or opinion, such last mentioned fact or opinion
must be proved before evidence is given of the fact or opinion
firstmentioned, unless the party undertakes to give proof of such fact
or opinion and the court is satisfied with such undertaking.

 (3) In any proceedings where any material referred to in
subsection (1) is adduced in evidence, the court may —

(a) direct the party to provide such material in electronic or
     other medium;

(b) require the provision of such material or copy thereof,
     including the identity and address of the person who
     prepared the material, to the other parties; and

          (c) specify a period within which such material or copy thereof
              must be provided to all parties to the proceedings.

                                                                                                            [4/2012]

Proof of signature and handwriting of person alleged to have
signed or written document produced

 69.—(1) If a document is alleged to be signed or to have been
written wholly or in part by any person, the signature or the
handwriting of so much of the document as is alleged to be in that
person’s handwriting must be proved to be in that person’s
handwriting.

 (2) This section does not apply to any electronic record or
electronic signature to which the Electronic Transactions Act 2010
applies.

Proof of execution of document required by law to be attested

 70. If a document is required by law to be attested, it shall not be
used as evidence until one attesting witness at least has been called
for the purpose of proving its execution, if there is an attesting witness
alive and subject to the process of the court and capable of giving
evidence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
59  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

Proof where no attesting witness found

 71. If no such attesting witness can be found, or if the document
purports to have been executed in the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, it must be proved that the attestation of
one attesting witness at least is in his or her handwriting, and that the
signature of the person executing the document is in the handwriting
of that person.

Admission of execution by party to attested document

 72. The admission of a party to an attested document of its
execution by himself or herself is sufficient proof of its execution as
against him or her, though it is a document required by law to be
attested.

Proof when attesting witness denies the execution

 73. If the attesting witness denies or does not recollect the
execution of the document, its execution may be proved by other
evidence.

Proof of document not required by law to be attested

 74. An attested document not required by law to be attested may be
proved as if it was unattested.

Comparison of signature, writing or seal with others admitted
or proved

 75.—(1) In order to ascertain whether a signature, writing or seal is
that of the person by whom it purports to have been written or made,
any signature, writing or seal, admitted or proved to the satisfaction of
the court to have been written or made by that person, may be
compared by a witness or by the court with the one which is to be
proved, although that signature, writing or seal has not been produced
or proved for any other purpose.

 (2) The court may direct any person present in court to write any
words or figures for the purpose of enabling the court to compare the
words or figures so written with any words or figures alleged to have
been written by such person.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        60

 (3) This section applies also, with any necessary modifications, to
finger impressions.

                              Public documents

Public documents

 76. The following documents are public documents:

       (a) documents forming the acts or records of the acts of —

               (i) the sovereign authority;

              (ii) official bodies and tribunals; and

             (iii) public officers, legislative, judicial and executive,
                   whether of Singapore or of any part of the
                   Commonwealth or of a foreign country;

       (b) public records kept in Singapore of private documents.

Private documents

 77. All other documents are private.

Certified copies of public documents

 78.—(1) Every public officer having the custody of a public
document which any person has a right to inspect must give that
person on demand a copy of it on payment of the legal fees therefor,
together with a certificate, written at the foot of such copy, that it is a
true copy of such document or part thereof, as the case may be.

 (2) A certificate under subsection (1) must be dated and subscribed
by such officer with the officer’s name and official title, and must be
sealed whenever such officer is authorised by law to make use of a
seal, and such copies so certified are called certified copies.

     Explanation.—Any officer who by the ordinary course of official duty is
authorised to deliver such copies is deemed to have the custody of such
documents within the meaning of this section.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
61  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

Proof of documents by production of certified copies

 79. Such certified copies may be produced in proof of the contents
of the public documents or parts of the public documents of which
they purport to be copies.

Proof of other official documents

 80.—(1) The following public documents may be proved as
follows:

       (a) the Acts, orders or notifications of the Government in any
            of its departments — by the records of the departments
            certified by the heads of those departments or by a Minister
            or by any document purporting to be printed or published
            by the authority of the Government;

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

       (b) the proceedings of Parliament — by the minutes of
            Parliament or by published Acts or abstracts or by copies
            purporting to be printed or published by the authority of the
            Government;

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

       (c) the Acts, orders or notifications of the Government of
            Malaysia or the proceedings of the Parliament of
            Malaysia — by copies or extracts contained in the
            Government Gazette of Malaysia or by the recognition
            thereof in any Act or Ordinance of Malaysia or any State
            thereof;

       (d) proclamations, orders or regulations issued by Her Majesty
            or by the Privy Council or by any department of Her
            Majesty’s Government — by copies or extracts contained
            in the London Gazette or the Gazette;

       (e) the Acts of the Executive or the proceedings of the
            legislature of a foreign country — by journals published by
            their authority or commonly received in that country as
            such, or by a copy certified under the seal of the country or
            sovereign, or by a recognition thereof in some public Act
            of Singapore;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        62

          (f) the proceedings of a municipal body, town board or other
              local authority in Malaysia — by a copy of such
              proceedings certified by the legal keeper thereof, or by a
              printed book purporting to be published by the authority of
              such body;

(g) public documents of any other class in a foreign country —
     by the original or by a copy certified by the legal keeper
     thereof, with a certificate under the seal of a notary public
     or of a consular officer of Singapore that the copy is duly
     certified by the officer having the legal custody of the
     original and upon proof of the character of the document
     according to the law of the foreign country.

 (2) Copies of Acts, Ordinances and Statutes passed by the
legislature of any country in the Commonwealth and of orders,
regulations and other instruments issued or made under the authority
of any such Act, Ordinance or Statute, if purporting to be printed by
the Government Printer, are to be received in evidence by all courts in
Singapore without any proof being given that the copies were so
printed.

                                                                                                           [16/2016]

 (3) In this section, “Government Printer” means, as respects any
country in the Commonwealth, the printer purporting to be the printer
authorised to print the Acts, Ordinances or Statutes of the legislature
of that country, or otherwise to be the Government Printer of that
country.

                                                                                                           [16/2016]

Prints from films in possession of the Government and
statutory body

 80A.—(1) A print, whether enlarged or not, purporting to be made
from a film of any document in the possession of the Government or
any specified statutory body may be produced in proof of the contents
of the document or such part of the document to which the print
purports to be a copy upon proof that —

       (a) while the document was in the custody or control of the
            Government or specified statutory body the film was taken
            in order to keep a permanent record thereof; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
63                     Evidence Act 1893                     2020 Ed.

    (b) the document photographed —

    (i) was subsequently destroyed, whether deliberately or
        otherwise;

    (ii) was so damaged as to be wholly or partly
         indecipherable;

    (iii) was lost; or

            (iv) had passed out of the custody or control of the
                  Government or specified statutory body.

                                                                                                         [20/2018]

(2) Proof —

    (a) that a print is made from a film of a document in the
         possession of the Government or a specified statutory
         body; and

    (b) of compliance with the conditions in subsection (1),

may be given in respect of any document or groups of documents by a
public officer or by an employee of the specified statutory body
having custody or control of the film, orally or by a certificate
purporting to be signed by such public officer or employee.

 (3) A certificate under subsection (2) is admissible in evidence in
any proceedings before any court on its production without further
proof.

 (4) On the production of a certificate under subsection (3), the court
before which it is produced is to presume, until the contrary is
proved —

    (a) that the facts stated in the certificate relating to the print
         and the compliance with the conditions in subsection (1)
         are true; and

    (b) that the certificate purporting to be signed by a public
         officer or an employee of a specified statutory body has
         been signed by him or her.

(5) In this section —

    “film” includes a photographic plate, microfilm and photostatic
       negative;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        64

“specified statutory body” means a statutory body specified in
   the Second Schedule.

                                                                                                   [20/2018]

Proof of signature, seal, etc., on foreign public document under
Apostille Convention

 80B. To avoid doubt, sections 76 to 80A do not affect the operation
of Part 2 of the Apostille Act 2020.

                                                                                                           [38/2020]

                      Presumptions as to documents

Presumption as to genuineness of certified copies

 81.—(1) The court is to presume to be genuine every document
purporting to be a certificate, certified copy or other document which
is by law declared to be admissible as evidence of any particular fact,
and which purports to be duly certified by any public officer in
Singapore or any officer in Malaysia who is duly authorised thereto,
if such document is substantially in the form and purports to be
executed in the manner directed by law in that behalf.

 (2) The court is to also presume that any officer by whom any such
document purports to be signed or certified held, when the officer
signed it, the official character which the officer claims in such
document.

Presumption as to documents produced as record of evidence

 82. Whenever any document is produced before any court
purporting to be a record or memorandum of the evidence or of
any part of the evidence given by a witness in a judicial proceeding or
before any officer authorised by law to take such evidence, or to be a
statement or confession by any prisoner or accused person, taken in
accordance with law and purporting to be signed by any Judge or
Magistrate or by any such authorised officer, the court is to
presume —

       (a) that the document is genuine;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
65  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

    (b) that any statements as to the circumstances under which it
         was taken, purporting to be made by the person signing it,
         are true; and

    (c) that such evidence, statement or confession was duly
        taken.

Presumption as to Gazettes, newspapers and other documents

 83. The court is to presume the genuineness of every document
purporting to be the Government Gazette of Singapore or the
Government Gazette of Malaysia or of any part of the
Commonwealth, or to be the Gazette issued by the local
government of any part of Malaysia or of the Commonwealth, or
to be a newspaper or journal and of every document purporting to be a
document directed by any law to be kept by any person, if such
document is kept substantially in the form required by law and is
produced from proper custody.

Presumption as to document admissible in England without
proof of seal or signature

 84. When any document is produced before any court purporting to
be a document which by the law in force for the time being in England
or Northern Ireland would be admissible in proof of any particular in
any court of justice in England or Northern Ireland, without proof of
the seal or stamp or signature authenticating it, or of the judicial or
official character claimed by the person by whom it purports to be
signed —

       (a) the court is to presume that such seal, stamp or signature is
            genuine, and that the person signing it held at the time
            when the person signed it the judicial or official character
            which the person claims; and

       (b) the document is admissible for the same purpose for which
            it would be admissible in England or Northern Ireland.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        66

Presumption as to maps or plans made by authority of
Government

 85.—(1) The court is to presume that maps or plans purporting to be
made by the authority of the Government were so made and are
accurate.

 (2) Maps or plans made for the purposes of any cause or other
proceeding, civil or criminal, must be proved to be accurate.

Presumption as to publication containing law or report of court
decision

 86. The court is to presume the genuineness of every publication
purporting —

       (a) to be printed or published under the authority of the
            government of any country and to contain any law of that
            country; or

       (b) to contain any official or authoritative report of a decision
            of a court of any country.

                                                                                                           [16/2016]

Presumption as to powers of attorney

 87. The court is to presume that every document purporting to be a
power of attorney, and to have been executed before and
authenticated by a notary public or any court, Judge, Magistrate or
consular officer of Singapore, was so executed and authenticated.

Presumption as to certified copies of foreign judicial records

 88. The court may presume that any document purporting to be a
certified copy of any judicial record of any country not forming part
of the Commonwealth is genuine and accurate if the document
purports to be certified in any manner which is certified by any
representative of the President or of Her Britannic Majesty in or for
such country to be the manner commonly in use in that country for the
certification of copies of judicial records.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
67  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

Presumption as to books, maps and charts

 89. The court may presume that any book to which it may refer for
information on matters of public or general interest, and that any
published map or chart the statements of which are relevant facts and
which is produced for its inspection, was written and published by the
person and at the time and place by whom or at which it purports to
have been written or published.

Presumption as to telegraphic messages

 90. The court may presume that a message forwarded from a
telegraph office to the person to whom such message purports to be
addressed corresponds with a message delivered for transmission at
the office from which the message purports to be sent; but the court is
not to make any presumption as to the person by whom such message
was delivered for transmission.

Presumption as to due execution, etc., of documents not
produced

 91. The court is to presume that every document called for and not
produced, after notice to produce given under section 68, was
attested, stamped and executed in the manner required by law.

Presumption as to documents 30 years old

 92. Where any document purporting or proved to be 30 years old is
produced from any custody which the court in the particular case
considers proper, the court may presume that the signature and every
other part of such document which purports to be in the handwriting
of any particular person is in that person’s handwriting, and in the
case of a document executed or attested, that it was duly executed and
attested by the persons by whom it purports to be executed and
attested.

    Explanation.—Documents are said to be in proper custody if they are in the
place in which and under the care of the person with whom they would naturally
be; but no custody is improper if it is proved to have had a legitimate origin, or if
the circumstances of the particular case are such as to render such an origin
probable.

     This explanation applies also to section 83.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        68

                                        Illustrations

    (a) A has been in possession of landed property for a long time. A produces
from A’s custody deeds relating to the land, showing A’s titles to it. The custody
is proper.

   (b) A produces deeds relating to landed property of which A is the mortgagee.
The mortgagor is in possession. The custody is proper.

   (c) A, a connection of B, produces deeds relating to lands in B’s possession,
which were deposited with A by B for safe custody. The custody is proper.

               Exclusion of oral by documentary evidence

Evidence of terms of contracts, grants and other dispositions of
property reduced to form of document

 93. When the terms of a contract or of a grant or of any other
disposition of property have been reduced by or by consent of the
parties to the form of a document, and in all cases in which any matter
is required by law to be reduced to the form of a document, no
evidence may be given in proof of the terms of such contract, grant or
other disposition of property or of such matter except the document
itself, or secondary evidence of its contents in cases in which
secondary evidence is admissible under the provisions of this Act.

     Exception 1.—When a public officer is required by law to be appointed in
writing, and when it is shown that any particular person has acted as such officer,
the writing by which he or she is appointed need not be proved.

    Exception 2.—Wills admitted to probate in Singapore may be proved by the
probate.

    Explanation 1.—This section applies equally to cases in which the contracts,
grants or dispositions of property referred to are contained in one document, and
to cases in which they are contained in more documents than one.

    Explanation 2.—Where there are more originals than one, one original only
need be proved.

   Explanation 3.—The statement in any document whatever of a fact, other than
the facts referred to in this section, does not preclude the admission of oral
evidence as to the same fact.

                                         Illustrations

     (a) If a contract is contained in several letters, all the letters in which it is
contained must be proved.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
69  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

   (b) If a contract is contained in a bill of exchange, the bill of exchange must be
proved.

    (c) If a bill of exchange is drawn in a set of 3, one only need be proved.

   (d) A contracts in writing with B for the delivery of pepper upon certain terms.
The contract mentions the fact that B had paid A the price of other pepper
contracted for verbally on another occasion.

   Oral evidence is offered that no payment was made for the other pepper. The
evidence is admissible.

    (e) A gives B a receipt for money paid by B.

    Oral evidence is offered of the payment. The evidence is admissible.

Exclusion of evidence of oral agreement

 94. When the terms of any such contract, grant or other disposition
of property, or any matter required by law to be reduced to the form of
a document, have been proved according to section 93, no evidence of
any oral agreement or statement is to be admitted as between the
parties to any such instrument or their representatives in interest for
the purpose of contradicting, varying, adding to, or subtracting from
its terms subject to the following provisions:

       (a) any fact may be proved which would invalidate any
            document or which would entitle any person to any decree
            or order relating thereto; such as fraud, intimidation,
            illegality, want of due execution, want of capacity in any
            contracting party, the fact that it is wrongly dated, want or
            failure of consideration, or mistake in fact or law;

       (b) the existence of any separate oral agreement, as to any
            matter on which a document is silent and which is not
            inconsistent with its terms, may be proved; in considering
            whether or not this proviso applies, the court is to have
            regard to the degree of formality of the document;

       (c) the existence of any separate oral agreement constituting a
            condition precedent to the attaching of any obligation
            under any such contract, grant or disposition of property,
            may be proved;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        70

(d) the existence of any distinct subsequent oral agreement, to
     rescind or modify any such contract, grant or disposition of
     property, may be proved except in cases in which such
     contract, grant or disposition of property is by law required
     to be in writing, or has been registered according to the law
     in force for the time being as to the registration of
     documents;

(e) any usage or custom by which incidents not expressly
     mentioned in any contract are usually annexed to contracts
     of that description may be proved; except that the annexing
     of such incident would not be repugnant to or inconsistent
     with the express terms of the contract;

(f) any fact may be proved which shows in what manner the
     language of a document is related to existing facts.

                                        Illustrations

    (a) A policy of insurance is effected on goods “in ships from Singapore to
London”. The goods are shipped in a particular ship, which is lost. The fact that
that particular ship was orally excepted from the policy cannot be proved.

   (b) A agrees absolutely in writing to pay B $1,000 on 1 March 1893. The fact
that at the same time an oral agreement was made that the money should not be
paid till 31 March cannot be proved.

   (c) An estate called “the Kranji Estate” is sold by a deed which contains a map
of the property sold. The fact that land not included in the map had always been
regarded as part of the estate and was meant to pass by the deed cannot be
proved.

   (d) A enters into a written contract with B to work certain mines, the property
of B, upon certain terms. A was induced to do so by a misrepresentation of B as to
their value. This fact may be proved.

   (e) A institutes a suit against B for the specific performance of a contract, and
also prays that the contract may be reformed as to one of its provisions on the
ground that that provision was inserted in it by mistake. A may prove that such a
mistake was made as would by law entitle A to have the contract reformed.

    (f) A orders goods of B by a letter in which nothing is said as to the time of
payment, and accepts the goods on delivery. B sues A for the price. A may show
that the goods were supplied on credit for a term still unexpired.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
71  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

   (g) A sells B a horse and verbally warrants the horse to be sound. A gives B a
paper in these words: “Bought of A a horse for $300.” B may prove the verbal
warranty.

  (h) A hires lodgings of B and gives B a card on which is written: “Rooms $80 a
month.” A may prove a verbal agreement that these terms were to include partial
board.

   A hires lodgings of B for a year, and a regularly stamped agreement drawn up
by an attorney is made between them. It is silent on the subject of board. A may
not prove that board was included in the terms verbally.

    (i) A applies to B for a debt due to A by sending a receipt for the money. B
keeps the receipt and does not send the money. In a suit for the amount A may
prove this.

   (j) A and B make a contract in writing to take effect upon the happening of a
certain contingency. The writing is left with B, who sues A upon it. A may show
the circumstances under which it was delivered.

                                                                                                        [S 210/2016]

Exclusion of evidence to explain or amend ambiguous
document

 95. When the language used in a document is on its face ambiguous
or defective, evidence may not be given of facts which would show its
meaning or supply its defects.

                                         Illustrations

    (a) A agrees in writing to sell a horse to B for $500 or $600. Evidence cannot
be given to show which price was to be given.

    (b) A deed contains blanks. Evidence cannot be given of facts which would
show how they were meant to be filled.

Exclusion of evidence against application of document to
existing facts

 96. When language used in a document is plain in itself and when it
applies accurately to existing facts, evidence may not be given to
show that it was not meant to apply to such facts.

                                          Illustration

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        72

  A conveys to B by deed “my estate at Kranji containing 100 hectares”. A has an
estate at Kranji containing 100 hectares. Evidence may not be given of the fact
that the estate meant was one situated at a different place and of a different size.

Evidence as to document meaningless in reference to existing
facts

 97. When language used in a document is plain in itself, but is
meaningless in reference to existing facts, evidence may be given to
show that it was used in a peculiar sense.

                                          Illustration

     A conveys to B by deed “my plantation in Penang”.

      A had no plantation in Penang, but it appears that A had a plantation in
Province Wellesley, of which B had been in possession since the execution of the
deed.

    These facts may be proved to show that the deed related to the plantation in
Province Wellesley.

Evidence as to application of language which can apply to one
only of several persons

 98. When the facts are such that the language used might have been
meant to apply to any one, and could not have been meant to apply to
more than one of several persons or things, evidence may be given of
facts which show to which of those persons or things it was intended
to apply.

                                         Illustrations

     (a) A agrees to sell to B for $500 “my white horse”. A has 2 white horses.
Evidence may be given of facts which show which of them was meant.

     (b) A agrees to accompany B to Halifax. Evidence may be given of facts
showing whether Halifax in Yorkshire or Halifax in Nova Scotia was meant.

Evidence as to application of language to one of 2 sets of facts to
neither of which the whole correctly applies

 99. When the language used applies partly to one set of existing
facts and partly to another set of existing facts, but the whole of it

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
73  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

does not apply correctly to either, evidence may be given to show to
which of the 2 it was meant to apply.

                                         Illustration

   A agrees to sell to B “my land at X in the occupation of Y”. A has land at X, but
not in the occupation of Y, and A has land in the occupation of Y, but it is not at X.
Evidence may be given of facts showing which A meant to sell.

Evidence as to meaning of illegible characters, etc.

 100. Evidence may be given to show the meaning of illegible or not
commonly intelligible characters, of foreign, obsolete, technical,
local and provincial expressions, of abbreviations and of words used
in a peculiar sense.

                                          Illustration

      A, a sculptor, agrees to sell to B “all my mods”. A has both models and
modelling tools. Evidence may be given to show which A meant to sell.

Who may give evidence of agreement varying terms of
document

 101. Persons who are not parties to a document or their
representatives in interest may give evidence of any fact tending to
show a contemporaneous agreement varying the terms of the
document.

                                          Illustration

   A and B make a contract in writing that B is to sell A certain tin to be paid for on
delivery. At the same time they make an oral agreement that 3 months’ credit is to
be given to A. This could not be shown as between A and B, but it might be shown
by C if it affected C’s interests.

Construction of wills not affected by sections 93 to 101
 102. Nothing in sections 93 to 101 affects the construction of wills.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        74

                                    PART 3

           PRODUCTION AND EFFECT OF EVIDENCE

                               Burden of proof

Burden of proof

 103.—(1) Whoever desires any court to give judgment as to any
legal right or liability, dependent on the existence of facts which the
person asserts, must prove that those facts exist.

 (2) When a person is bound to prove the existence of any fact, it is
said that the burden of proof lies on that person.

                                        Illustrations

    (a) A desires a court to give judgment that B shall be punished for a crime
which A says B has committed.

    A must prove that B has committed the crime.

   (b) A desires a court to give judgment that A is entitled to certain land in the
possession of B by reason of facts which A asserts and which B denies to be true.

    A must prove the existence of those facts.

On whom burden of proof lies
 104. The burden of proof in a suit or proceeding lies on that person

who would fail if no evidence at all were given on either side.

                                         Illustrations
    (a) A sues B for land of which B is in possession, and which, as A asserts, was
left to A by the will of C, B’s father.
     If no evidence were given on either side, B would be entitled to possession.
     Therefore the burden of proof is on A.
     (b) A sues B for money due on a bond.
   The execution of the bond is admitted, but B says that it was obtained by fraud,
which A denies.
    If no evidence were given on either side, A would succeed as the bond is not
disputed and the fraud is not proved.
     Therefore the burden of proof is on B.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
75  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

Burden of proof as to particular fact

 105. The burden of proof as to any particular fact lies on that person
who wishes the court to believe in its existence, unless it is provided
by any law that the proof of that fact is to lie on any particular person.

                                        Illustrations

   (a) A prosecutes B for theft and wishes the court to believe that B admitted the
theft to C. A must prove the admission.

    (b) B wishes the court to believe that at the time in question he or she was
elsewhere. B must prove it.

Burden of proving fact to be proved to make evidence
admissible

 106. The burden of proving any fact necessary to be proved in order
to enable any person to give evidence of any other fact is on the
person who wishes to give such evidence.

                                         Illustrations

     (a) A wishes to prove a dying declaration by B. A must prove B’s death.
    (b) A wishes to prove by secondary evidence the contents of a lost document.

     A must prove that the document has been lost.

Burden of proving that case of accused comes within exceptions

 107. When a person is accused of any offence, the burden of
proving the existence of circumstances bringing the case within any
of the general exceptions in the Penal Code 1871, or within any
special exception or proviso contained in any other part of the Penal
Code 1871, or in any law defining the offence, is upon the person, and
the court is to presume the absence of such circumstances.

                                         Illustrations

    (a) A accused of murder alleges that by reason of unsoundness of mind A did
not know the nature of the act.

     The burden of proof is on A.

    (b) A accused of murder alleges that by grave and sudden provocation A was
deprived of the power of self‑control.

     The burden of proof is on A.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        76

   (c) Section 325 of the Penal Code 1871 provides that whoever, except in the
case provided for by section 335, voluntarily causes grievous hurt shall be
subject to certain punishments.

    A is charged with voluntarily causing grievous hurt under section 325.

   The burden of proving the circumstances, bringing the case under section 335,
lies on A.

Burden of proving fact especially within knowledge

 108. When any fact is especially within the knowledge of any
person, the burden of proving that fact is upon that person.

                                         Illustrations

    (a) When a person does an act with some intention other than that which the
character and circumstances of the act suggest, the burden of proving that
intention is upon that person.

    (b) A is charged with travelling on a railway without a ticket. The burden of
proving that A had a ticket is on him or her.

Burden of proving death of person known to have been alive
within 30 years

 109. When the question is whether a person is alive or dead, and it is
shown that the person was alive within 30 years, the burden of
proving that the person is dead is on the person who affirms it.

Burden of proving that person is alive who has not been heard
of for 7 years

 110. When the question is whether a person is alive or dead, and it is
proved that the person has not been heard of for 7 years by those who
would naturally have heard of the person if the person had been alive,
the burden of proving that the person is alive is shifted to the person
who affirms it.

Burden of proof as to relationship in the cases of partners,
landlord and tenant, principal and agent

 111. When the question is whether persons are partners, landlord
and tenant, or principal and agent, and it has been shown that they
have been acting as such, the burden of proving that they do not stand,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
77  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

or have ceased to stand to each other in those relationships
respectively, is on the person who affirms it.

Burden of proof as to ownership

 112. When the question is whether any person is owner of anything
of which the person is shown to be in possession, the burden of
proving that the person is not the owner is on the person who affirms
that the firstmentioned person is not the owner.

Proof of good faith in transactions where one party is in
relation of active confidence

 113. Where there is a question as to the good faith of a transaction
between parties, one of whom stands to the other in a position of
active confidence, the burden of proving the good faith of the
transaction is on the party who is in a position of active confidence.

                                         Illustrations

    (a) The good faith of a sale by a client to an attorney is in question in a suit
brought by the client. The burden of proving the good faith of the transaction is
on the attorney.

    (b) The good faith of a sale by a son just come of age to a father is in question
in a suit brought by the son. The burden of proving the good faith of the
transaction is on the father.

Rebuttable presumption of paternity

 114.—(1) Where any person was born —

       (a) during the continuance of a valid marriage between his or
            her mother and any man; or

       (b) within 280 days after the dissolution of the marriage, the
            mother remaining unmarried,

it is presumed that the person is the legitimate child of that man,
unless the contrary is proved.

                                                                                                           [16/2013]

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a person whose parenthood is
determined under the Status of Children (Assisted Reproduction
Technology) Act 2013.

                                                                                                           [16/2013]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        78

115. [Repealed by Act 8 of 1996]

Court may presume existence of certain fact

 116. The court may presume the existence of any fact which it
thinks likely to have happened, regard being had to the common
course of natural events, human conduct, and public and private
business, in their relation to the facts of the particular case.

                                         Illustrations

     The court may presume —

          (a) that an individual who is in possession of stolen goods soon after the
               theft is either the thief or has received the goods knowing them to be
               stolen, unless the individual can account for his or her possession;

          (b) that an accomplice is unworthy of credit and his or her evidence
               needs to be treated with caution;

          (c) that a bill of exchange accepted or endorsed was accepted or
               endorsed for good consideration;

          (d) that a thing or state of things which has been shown to be in
               existence within a period shorter than that within which such things
               or states of things usually cease to exist is still in existence;

          (e) that judicial and official acts have been regularly performed;

           (f) that the common course of business has been followed in particular
               cases;

          (g) that evidence which could be and is not produced would if produced
               be unfavourable to the person who withholds it;

          (h) that if an individual refuses to answer a question which the
               individual is not compelled to answer by law, the answer if given
               would be unfavourable to him or her;

           (i) that when a document creating an obligation is in the hands of the
               obligor the obligation has been discharged.

   But the court is also to have regard to such facts as the following in considering
whether such maxims do or do not apply to the particular case before it:

    as to illustration (a)—a shop-keeper has in his or her till a marked dollar soon
after it was stolen and cannot account for its possession specifically but is
continually receiving dollars in the course of his or her business:

    as to illustration (b)—A, a person of the highest character is tried for causing a
man’s death by an act of negligence in arranging certain machinery. B, a person

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
79  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

of equally good character, who also took part in the arrangement, describes
precisely what was done and admits and explains the common carelessness of A
and B:

  as to illustration (b)—a crime is committed by several persons. A, B and C, 3 of
the criminals, are captured on the spot and kept apart from each other. Each gives
an account of the crime implicating D, and the accounts corroborate each other in
such a manner as to render previous concert highly improbable:

     as to illustration (c)—A, the drawer of a bill of exchange, was a man of
business. B, the acceptor, was a young and ignorant person completely under A’s
influence:

    as to illustration (d)—it is proved that a river ran in a certain course 5 years
ago, but it is known that there have been floods since that time which might
change its course:

   as to illustration (e)—a judicial act, the regularity of which is in question, was
performed under exceptional circumstances:

   as to illustration (f)—the question is whether a letter was received. It is shown
to have posted, but the usual course of the post was interrupted by disturbances:

     as to illustration (g)—an individual refuses to produce a document which
would bear on a contract of small importance on which the individual is sued, but
which might also injure the feeling and reputation of his or her family:

    as to illustration (h)—an individual refuses to answer a question which the
individual is not compelled by law to answer, but the answer to it might cause
loss to him or her in matters unconnected with the matter in relation to which it is
asked:

       as to illustration (i)—a bond is in possession of the obligor, but the
circumstances of the case are such that he or she may have stolen it.

Presumptions in relation to electronic records

 116A.—(1) Unless evidence sufficient to raise doubt about the
presumption is adduced, where a device or process is one that, or is of
a kind that, if properly used, ordinarily produces or accurately
communicates an electronic record, the court is to presume that in
producing or communicating that electronic record on the occasion in
question, the device or process produced or accurately communicated
the electronic record.

                                          Illustration

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        80

    A seeks to adduce evidence in the form of an electronic record or document
produced by an electronic device or process. A proves that the electronic device
or process in question is one that, or is of a kind that, if properly used, ordinarily
produces that electronic record or document. This is a relevant fact for the court
to presume that in producing the electronic record or document on the occasion
in question, the electronic device or process produced the electronic record or
document which A seeks to adduce.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (2) Unless evidence to the contrary is adduced, the court is to
presume that any electronic record generated, recorded or stored is
authentic if it is established that the electronic record was generated,
recorded or stored in the usual and ordinary course of business by a
person who was not a party to the proceedings on the occasion in
question and who did not generate, record or store it under the control
of the party seeking to introduce the electronic record.

                                          Illustration

    A seeks to adduce evidence against B in the form of an electronic record. The
fact that the electronic record was generated, recorded or stored in the usual and
ordinary course of business by C, a neutral third party, is a relevant fact for the
court to presume that the electronic record is authentic.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (3) Unless evidence to the contrary is adduced, where an electronic
record was generated, recorded or stored by a party who is adverse in
interest to the party seeking to adduce the evidence, the court is to
presume that the electronic record is authentic in relation to the
authentication issues arising from the generation, recording or
storage of that electronic record.

                                          Illustration

    A seeks to adduce evidence against B in the form of an electronic record. The
fact that the electronic record was generated, recorded or stored by B, who
opposes the relevance of the evidence, is a relevant fact for the court to presume
that the electronic record is authentic.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (2), in criminal proceedings a
party to the proceedings includes —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
81  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

    (a) the police officer or other officer of a law enforcement
         agency who was involved in the investigation of offences
         allegedly committed by the accused person; or

       (b) an accomplice of the accused person even though he or she
            is not charged with an offence in the same proceedings.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (5) The Minister may make regulations providing for a process by
which a document may be recorded or stored through the use of an
imaging system, including providing for the appointment of one or
more persons or organisations to certify these systems and their use,
and for any matters incidental thereto, and an “approved process” in
subsection (6) means a process that has been approved in accordance
with the provisions of such regulations.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (6) Where an electronic record was recorded or stored from a
document produced pursuant to an approved process, the court is to
presume, unless evidence to the contrary is adduced, that the
electronic record accurately reproduces that document.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (7) The matters referred to in this section may be established by an
affidavit given to the best of the deponent’s knowledge and belief.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

                                    Estoppel

Estoppel

 117. When one person (A) has by A’s declaration, act or omission
intentionally caused or permitted another person (B) to believe a thing
to be true and to act upon such belief, otherwise than but for that
belief B would have acted, neither A or A’s representative in interest is
to be allowed in any suit or proceeding between himself, herself or
itself and B or B’s representative in interest to deny the truth of that
thing.

                                          Illustration

   A intentionally and falsely leads B to believe that certain land belongs to A and
thereby induces B to buy and pay for it.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        82

  The land afterwards becomes the property of A and A seeks to set aside the sale
on the ground that at the time of the sale A had no title.

    A must not be allowed to prove A’s want of title.

Estoppel of tenant and of licensee of person in possession

 118.—(1) No tenant of immovable property, or person claiming
through such tenant, is during the continuance of the tenancy
permitted to deny that the landlord of the tenant had at the beginning
of the tenancy a title to the immovable property.

 (2) No person who came upon any immovable property by the
licence of the person in possession thereof is permitted to deny that
the person had a title to the possession at the time when the licence
was given.

Estoppel of bailee or licensee

 119.—(1) No bailee, agent or licensee is permitted to deny that the
bailor, principal or licensor, by whom any goods were entrusted to
any of them respectively, was entitled to those goods at the time when
they were so entrusted.

 (2) Any such bailee, agent or licensee (A) may show that A was
compelled to deliver up any such goods to some person who had a
right to them as against A’s bailor, principal or licensor, or that A’s
bailor, principal or licensor wrongfully and without notice to A,
obtained the goods from a third person, who has claimed them
from A.

                                   Witnesses

Who may testify

 120. All persons are competent to testify unless the court considers
that they are prevented from understanding the questions put to them
or from giving rational answers to those questions by tender years,
extreme old age, disease, whether of body or mind, or any other cause
of the same kind.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
83  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

     Explanation.—A lunatic is not incompetent to testify unless he or she is
prevented by his or her lunacy from understanding the questions put to him or her
and giving rational answers to them.

Dumb witnesses

 121.—(1) A witness who is unable to speak may give his or her
evidence in any other manner in which he or she can make it
intelligible, as, for example, by writing or by signs; but such writing
must be written and the signs made in open court.

 (2) Evidence so given is deemed to be oral evidence.

Parties to civil suit and their wives or husbands, and husband
or wife of person under criminal trial

 122.—(1) In all civil proceedings, the parties to the suit, and the
husband or wife of any party to the suit, are competent witnesses.

 (2) In criminal proceedings against any person, the husband or wife
of such person respectively is a competent witness.

 (3) In any criminal proceedings, the accused is competent to give
evidence on behalf of himself or herself or any person jointly charged
with him or her, but is not compellable to do so.

 (4) Where in any criminal proceedings the accused gives evidence,
then, subject to this section and section 56, the accused must not in
cross‑examination be asked, and if asked is not required to answer,
any question tending to reveal to the court —

       (a) the fact that the accused has committed, or has been
            charged with or convicted or acquitted of, any offence
            other than the offence charged; or

       (b) the fact that the accused is generally or in a particular
            respect a person of bad disposition or reputation.

 (5) Subsection (4) does not apply to a question tending to reveal to
the court a fact about the accused such as is mentioned in
paragraph (a) or (b) thereof if evidence of that fact is (by virtue of
section 14 or 15 of this Act or of section 265 or 266 of the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010 or of any other written law) admissible for the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        84

purpose of proving the commission by him or her of the offence
charged.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

 (6) Where in any criminal proceedings in which 2 or more persons
are jointly charged, any of the accused gives evidence, subsection (4)
does not in his or her case apply to any question tending to reveal to
the court a fact about him or her such as is mentioned in
subsection (4)(a) or (b) if evidence of that fact is admissible for
the purpose of showing any other of the accused to be not guilty of the
offence with which that other is charged.

(7) Subsection (4) does not apply if —

(a) the accused has personally or by his or her advocate asked
     any witness for the prosecution or for a person jointly
     charged with him or her any question concerning the
     witness’s conduct on any occasion or as to whether the
     witness has committed, or has been charged with or
     convicted or acquitted of, any offence; and

(b) the court is of the opinion that the main purpose of that
     question was to raise an issue as to the witness’s credibility,

but the court is not to permit a question falling within subsection (4)
to be put to the accused by virtue of this subsection unless it is of the
opinion that the question is relevant to his or her credibility as a
witness.

 (8) Subsection (4) does not apply where the accused has himself or
herself given evidence against any person jointly charged with him or
her in the same proceedings.

Judges and Magistrates

 123. No Judge and, except upon the special order of the General
Division of the High Court, no Magistrate may be compelled to
answer any question as to his or her own conduct in court as such
Judge or Magistrate or as to anything which came to his or her
knowledge in court as such Judge or Magistrate; but he or she may be
examined as to other matters which occurred in his or her presence
while he or she was so acting.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
85  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

                                        Illustrations

   (a) A, on A’s trial before the General Division of the High Court, says that a
deposition was improperly taken by B, the committing Magistrate. B cannot be
compelled to answer questions as to this except upon the special order of the
General Division of the High Court.

   (b) A is accused before a District Court of having given false evidence before
B, a District Judge. B cannot be compelled to say what A said except upon the
special order of the General Division of the High Court.

    (c) A is accused of attempting to murder a police officer while on A’s trial
before B, a Judge sitting in the General Division of the High Court. B may be
examined as to what occurred.

                                                             [40/2019]

Communications during marriage

 124.—(1) No person who is or has been married may be compelled
to disclose any communication made to him or her during marriage
by any person to whom he or she is or has been married; nor may he
or she be permitted to disclose any such communication unless the
person who made it or his or her representative in interest consents,
except in suits between married persons or proceedings in which one
married person is prosecuted for any crime committed against the
other.

                                                                                                           [15/2019]

 (2) Nothing in this section protects from disclosure any such
communication made that is relevant in any criminal proceedings in
respect of a specified offence.

                                                                                                           [15/2019]

 (3) In this section —

      “domestic worker” has the meaning given by section 73(4) of
         the Penal Code 1871;

      “employer”, in relation to a domestic worker, has the meaning
         given by section 73(4) of the Penal Code 1871;

      “employment agent”, in relation to a domestic worker, has the
         meaning given by section 73(4) of the Penal Code 1871;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        86

“member of the employer’s household” has the meaning given
   by section 73(4) of the Penal Code 1871;

“specified offence” means any of the following offences:

          (a) a child abuse offence committed against a person
               below 16 years of age;

          (b) a sexual offence or an offence under Chapter 16 of
               the Penal Code 1871 (other than a sexual offence)
               committed against a person below 16 years of age;

          (c) a sexual offence or an offence under Chapter 16 of
              the Penal Code 1871 (other than a sexual offence)
              committed against a domestic worker by an employer
              of the domestic worker, a member of the employer’s
              household or an employment agent of the domestic
              worker;

          (d) a sexual offence or an offence under Chapter 16 of
               the Penal Code 1871 (other than a sexual offence)
               committed against a vulnerable person by a person
               who has the custody, charge or care of the vulnerable
               person;

          (e) an abetment of, a conspiracy to commit or an attempt
              to commit any of the offences mentioned in
              paragraphs (a) to (d);

“vulnerable person” has the meaning given by section 74A(5) of
   the Penal Code 1871.

                                                                   [15/2019]

Evidence as to affairs of State

 125. No one is permitted to produce any unpublished official
records relating to affairs of State, or to give any evidence derived
therefrom, except with the permission of the officer at the head of the
Department concerned, who may give or withhold such permission as
he or she thinks fit, subject, however, to the control of the Minister.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
87  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

Official communications

 126.—(1) No public officer may be compelled to disclose
communications made to him or her in official confidence when he
or she considers that the public interest would suffer by the
disclosure.

                                                                                                           [17/2003]

 (2) No person who is a member, an officer or an employee of, or
who is seconded to, any organisation specified in the Schedule to the
Official Secrets Act 1935 may be compelled to disclose
communications made to him or her in official confidence when he
or she considers that the public interest would suffer by the
disclosure.

                                                                                                           [17/2003]

Information as to commission of offences

 127.—(1) No Magistrate or police officer may be compelled to say
from where he or she got any information as to the commission of any
offence.

 (2) No revenue officer may be compelled to say from where he or
she got any information as to the commission of any offence against
the public revenue or the excise laws.

   Explanation.—“Revenue officer” in this section means any officer employed
in or about the business of any branch of the public revenue or in or about the
business of any Government farm.

Professional communications

 128.—(1) No advocate or solicitor is at any time permitted, unless
with his or her client’s express consent, to disclose any
communication made to him or her in the course and for the
purpose of his or her employment as such advocate or solicitor by or
on behalf of his or her client, or to state the contents or condition of
any document with which he or she has become acquainted in the
course and for the purpose of his or her professional employment, or
to disclose any advice given by him or her to his or her client in the
course and for the purpose of such employment.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        88

 (2) Nothing in this section protects from disclosure —

       (a) any such communication made in furtherance of any illegal
            purpose;

       (b) any fact observed by any advocate or solicitor in the course
            of his or her employment as such showing that any crime or
            fraud has been committed since the commencement of his
            or her employment.

 (3) It is immaterial whether the attention of such advocate or
solicitor was or was not directed to such fact by or on behalf of his or
her client.

      Explanation.—The obligation stated in this section continues after the
employment has ceased.

                                        Illustrations

   (a) A, a client, says to B, a solicitor: “I have committed forgery and I wish you
to defend me”.

    As the defence of a man known to be guilty is not a criminal purpose this
communication is protected from disclosure.

   (b) A, a client, says to B, a solicitor: “I wish to obtain possession of property
by the use of a forged deed on which I request you to sue”.

    This communication being made in furtherance of a criminal purpose is not
protected from disclosure.

   (c) A, being charged with embezzlement, retains B, a solicitor, to defend A. In
the course of the proceedings B observes that an entry has been made in A’s
account book, charging A with the sum said to have been embezzled, which entry
was not in the book at the commencement of his or her employment.

     This being a fact observed by B in the course of his or her employment,
showing that a fraud has been committed since the commencement of the
proceedings, it is not protected from disclosure.

Communications with legal counsel in entity

 128A.—(1) A legal counsel in an entity is not at any time permitted,
except with the entity’s express consent, to disclose any
communication made to him or her in the course and for the
purpose of his or her employment as such legal counsel, or to state the
contents or condition of any document with which he or she has

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
89  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

become acquainted in the course and for the purpose of his or her
employment as such legal counsel, or to disclose any legal advice
given by him or her to the entity, or to any officer or employee of the
entity, in the course and for the purpose of such employment.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (2) Nothing in subsection (1) protects from disclosure —

    (a) any such communication made in furtherance of any illegal
         purpose;

    (b) any fact observed by any legal counsel in an entity in the
         course of his or her employment as such legal counsel
         showing that any crime or fraud has been committed since
         the commencement of his or her employment as such legal
         counsel;

    (c) any such communication made to the legal counsel which
        was not made for the purpose of seeking his or her legal
        advice; or

       (d) any document which the legal counsel was made
            acquainted with otherwise than in the course of and for
            the purpose of seeking his or her legal advice.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2)(b), it is immaterial whether
the attention of the legal counsel was or was not directed to that fact
by or on behalf of the entity.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (4) Where a legal counsel is employed by one of a number of
corporations that are related to each other under section 6 of the
Companies Act 1967, subsection (1) applies in relation to the legal
counsel and every corporation so related as if the legal counsel were
also employed by each of the related corporations.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (5) Where a legal counsel is employed by a public agency and is
required as part of his or her duties of employment or appointment to
provide legal advice or assistance in connection with the application
of the law or any form of resolution of legal dispute to another public
agency or agencies, subsection (1) applies in relation to the legal
counsel and the second-mentioned public agency or agencies as if the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        90

legal counsel were also employed by the second‑mentioned public
agency or agencies.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (6) For the purposes of subsection (5), “public agency” includes —

(a) the Government, including any ministry, department,
     agency, or Organ of State or instrumentality of the
     Government;

(b) any board, commission, committee or similar body,
     whether corporate or unincorporate, established under a
     public Act for a public function (called in this subsection a
     statutory body);

          (c) any other board, commission, committee or similar body
              appointed by the Government, or by a statutory body, for a
              public purpose.

                                                                                                            [4/2012]

Sections 128 and 128A to apply to interpreters, etc.

 129. Sections 128 and 128A apply to interpreters and other persons
who work under the supervision of legal professional advisers.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

Privilege not waived by volunteering evidence

 130.—(1) If any party to a suit gives evidence therein at his or her
own instance or otherwise, that party is not deemed to have consented
thereby to such disclosure as is mentioned in section 128 or 128A.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (2) If any party to a suit or proceeding calls any advocate or
solicitor as a witness, that party is deemed to have consented to such
disclosure as is mentioned in section 128 only if that party questions
the advocate or solicitor on matters which but for the question the
advocate or solicitor would not be at liberty to disclose.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (3) If any party to a suit or proceeding calls any legal counsel in an
entity as a witness, that party is deemed to have consented to such
disclosure as is mentioned in section 128A only if that party questions

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
91  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

the legal counsel on matters which but for the question the legal
counsel would not be at liberty to disclose.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

Confidential communications with legal advisers

 131.—(1) No one may be compelled to disclose to the court any
confidential communication which has taken place between him or
her and his or her legal professional adviser unless he or she offers
himself or herself as a witness, in which case he or she may be
compelled to disclose any such communications as may appear to the
court necessary to be known in order to explain any evidence which
he or she has given, but no others.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

 (2) In subsection (1) and section 129, “legal professional adviser”
means —

       (a) an advocate or solicitor; or

       (b) in the case of any communication which has taken place
            between any officer or employee of an entity and a legal
            counsel employed, or deemed under section 128A(4) or (5)
            to be employed, by the entity in the course and for the
            purpose of seeking his or her legal advice as such legal
            counsel, that legal counsel.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

Production of title deeds of witness not a party

 132.—(1) No witness who is not a party to the suit may be
compelled to produce his or her title deeds to any property, or any
document by virtue of which he or she holds any property as pledgee
or mortgagee, or any document the production of which might tend to
criminate him or her, unless he or she has agreed in writing to produce
them with the person seeking the production of such deeds or some
person through whom he or she claims.

 (2) No witness who is a party to the suit is bound to produce any
document in his or her possession or power which is not relevant or
material to the case of the party requiring its production.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        92

 (3) No bank may be compelled to produce the books of such bank in
any legal proceeding to which such bank is not a party, except as
provided by section 174.

Production of documents which another person having
possession could refuse to produce

 133. No one may be compelled to produce documents in his or her
possession which any other person would be entitled to refuse to
produce if they were in his or her possession, except for the purpose
of identification, unless such last mentioned person consents to their
production, nor may anyone who is entitled to refuse to produce a
document be compelled to give oral evidence of its contents.

Witness not excused from answering on ground that answer
will criminate

 134.—(1) A witness is not excused from answering any question as
to any matter relevant to the matter in issue in any suit, or in any civil
or criminal proceeding, upon the ground that the answer to such
question will criminate, or may tend, directly or indirectly, to
criminate, such witness, or that it will expose, or tend, directly or
indirectly, to expose, such witness to a penalty or forfeiture of any
kind, or that it will establish or tend to establish that the witness owes
a debt or is otherwise subject to a civil suit at the instance of the
Government or of any other person.

 (2) No answer which a witness is compelled by the court to give
shall subject him or her to any arrest or prosecution, or be proved
against him or her in any criminal proceeding, except a prosecution
for giving false evidence by such answer.

 (3) Before compelling a witness to answer a question the answer to
which will criminate or may tend, directly or indirectly, to criminate
such witness, the court is to explain to the witness the purport of
subsection (2).

 (4) Where the accused gives evidence in any criminal
proceedings —

       (a) the accused is not entitled to refuse to answer a question or
            produce a document or thing on the ground that to do so

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
93  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

    would tend to prove the commission by him or her of the
    offence charged; and

    (b) except as regards any question, document or thing which in
         the opinion of the court is relevant solely or mainly to the
         accused’s credibility as a witness (not being, in the case of
         a question, one asked by virtue of section 56), the accused
         is not entitled to refuse to answer a question or produce a
         document or thing on the ground that to do so would —

    (i) tend to expose the accused to proceedings for some
        other offence or for the recovery of a penalty; or

    (ii) tend to expose the accused’s wife or husband to
         proceedings for an offence or for the recovery of a
         penalty.

 (5) Where a person being the wife or husband of the accused gives
evidence in any criminal proceedings, that person —

    (a) is not entitled to refuse to answer a question or produce a
         document or thing on the ground that to do so would tend
         to prove the commission by the accused of the offence
         charged; and

    (b) except as regards any question, document or thing which in
         the opinion of the court is relevant solely or mainly to that
         person’s credibility as a witness, is not entitled to refuse to
         answer a question or produce a document or thing on the
         ground that to do so would tend to expose her or him to
         proceedings as mentioned in subsection (4)(b)(i).

 (6) No answer which an accused or his or her spouse is compelled
to give under subsection (4)(b) or under subsection (5)(b) shall —

    (a) expose the accused to any proceedings for some other
         offence or for the recovery of a penalty or be proved
         against him or her in any such proceedings; or

    (b) expose the spouse to any proceedings for an offence or for
         the recovery of a penalty or be proved against the spouse in
         any such proceedings.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        94

 (7) Any reference in this section to proceedings for the recovery of
a penalty includes a reference to civil proceedings therefor.

Accomplice

 135.—(1) An accomplice is a competent witness against an accused
person.

 (2) Any rule of law or practice whereby at a trial it is obligatory for
the court to warn itself about convicting the accused on the
uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice is abrogated.

Number of witnesses

 136. No particular number of witnesses is in any case required for
the proof of any fact.

                          Examination of witnesses

Order of production and examination of witnesses

 137. The order in which witnesses are produced and examined is to
be regulated by the law and practice for the time being relating to civil
and criminal procedure respectively, and in the absence of any such
law by the discretion of the court.

Court to decide as to admissibility of evidence

 138.—(1) When either party proposes to give evidence of any fact,
the court may ask the party proposing to give the evidence in what
manner the alleged fact, if proved, would be relevant; and the court
shall admit the evidence if it thinks that the fact, if proved, would be
relevant, and not otherwise.

 (2) If the fact proposed to be proved is one of which evidence is
admissible only upon proof of some other fact, such last mentioned
fact must be proved before evidence is given of the fact
firstmentioned, unless the party undertakes to give proof of such
fact and the court is satisfied with such undertaking.

 (3) If the relevancy of one alleged fact depends upon another
alleged fact being first proved, the court may, in its discretion, either
permit evidence of the first fact to be given before the second fact is

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
95  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

proved, or require evidence to be given of the second fact before
evidence is given of the first fact.

                                        Illustrations

  (a) It is proposed to prove a statement about a relevant fact by a person alleged
to be dead, which statement is relevant under section 32.

    The fact that the person is dead must be proved by the person proposing to
prove the statement before evidence is given of the statement.

   (b) It is proposed to prove by a copy the contents of a document said to be lost.

    The fact that the original is lost must be proved by the person proposing to
produce the copy before the copy is produced.

   (c) A is accused of receiving stolen property, knowing it to have been stolen.

    It is proposed to prove that A denied the possession of the property.

   The relevancy of the denial depends on the identity of the property. The court
may, in its discretion, either require the property to be identified before the denial
of the possession is proved or permit the denial of the possession to be proved
before the property is identified.

   (d) It is proposed to prove a fact (A) which is said to have been the cause or
effect of a fact in issue. There are several intermediate facts (B, C and D) which
must be shown to exist before the fact (A) can be regarded as the cause or effect
of the fact in issue. The court may either permit A to be proved before B, C or D is
proved or may require proof of B, C and D before permitting proof of A.

Examination-in-chief, cross-examination and re-examination

 139.—(1) The examination of a witness by the party who calls him
or her is called his or her examination‑in‑chief.

 (2) The examination of a witness by the adverse party is called his
or her cross‑examination.

 (3) Where a witness has been cross-examined and is then examined
by the party who called him or her, such examination is called his or
her re‑examination.

Order of examinations and direction of re-examination

 140.—(1) Witnesses are to be first examined‑in‑chief, then, if the
adverse party so desires, cross‑examined, then, if the party calling
them so desires, re‑examined.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        96

 (2) The examination and cross-examination must relate to relevant
facts, but the cross‑examination need not be confined to the facts to
which the witness testified on his or her examination‑in‑chief.

 (3) The re-examination is to be directed to the explanation of
matters referred to in cross-examination; and if new matter is, by
permission of the court, introduced in re‑examination, the adverse
party may further cross‑examine upon that matter.

 (4) The court may in all cases permit a witness to be recalled either
for further examination-in-chief or for further cross‑examination, and
if it does so, the parties have the right of further cross-examination
and re‑examination respectively.

Cross-examination of person called to produce document

 141. A person summoned to produce a document does not become
a witness by the mere fact that he or she produces it, and cannot be
cross‑examined unless he or she is called as a witness.

Witnesses to character

 142. Witnesses to character may be cross-examined and
re‑examined.

Leading questions

 143. Any question suggesting the answer which the person putting
it wishes or expects to receive or suggesting disputed facts as to
which the witness is to testify, is called a leading question.

When they must not be asked

 144.—(1) Leading questions must not, if objected to by the adverse
party, be asked in an examination-in-chief or in a re‑examination,
except with the permission of the court.

 (2) The court shall permit leading questions as to matters which are
introductory or undisputed, or which have in its opinion been already
sufficiently proved.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
97  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

When they may be asked

 145.—(1) Leading questions may be asked in cross‑examination,
subject to the following qualifications:

    (a) the question must not put into the mouth of the witness the
         very words which he or she is to echo back again; and

    (b) the question must not assume that facts have been proved
         which have not been proved, or that particular answers
         have been given contrary to the fact.

 (2) The court, in its discretion, may prohibit leading questions from
being put to a witness who shows a strong interest or bias in favour of
the cross‑examining party.

Evidence as to matters in writing

 146. Any witness may be asked while under examination whether
any contract, grant or other disposition of property as to which the
witness is giving evidence was not contained in a document, and if the
witness says that it was, or if the witness is about to make any
statement as to the contents of any document which in the opinion of
the court ought to be produced, the adverse party may object to such
evidence being given until such document is produced or until facts
have been proved which entitle the party who called the witness to
give secondary evidence of it.

    Explanation.—A witness may give oral evidence of statements made by other
persons about the contents of documents if such statements are in themselves
relevant facts.

                                          Illustration

     The question is whether A assaulted B.

     C deposes that he or she heard A say to D: “B wrote a letter accusing me of
theft and I will be revenged on him”. The statement is relevant as showing A’s
motive for the assault and evidence may be given of it though no other evidence
is given about the letter.

Cross-examination as to previous statements in writing

 147.—(1) A witness may be cross-examined as to previous
statements made by him or her in writing or reduced into writing,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        98

and relevant to matters in question in the suit or proceeding in which
he or she is cross‑examined, without such writing being shown to him
or her or being proved; but if it is intended to contradict him or her by
the writing, his or her attention must, before the writing can be
proved, be called to those parts of it which are to be used for the
purpose of contradicting him or her.

 (2) If a witness, upon cross-examination as to a previous oral
statement made by him or her relevant to matters in question in the
suit or proceeding in which he or she is cross‑examined and
inconsistent with his or her present testimony, does not distinctly
admit that he or she made such statement, proof may be given that he
or she did in fact make it; but before such proof can be given, the
circumstances of the supposed statement, sufficient to designate the
particular occasion, must be mentioned to the witness, and he or she
must be asked whether or not he or she made such statement.

 (3) Where in any proceedings a previous inconsistent or
contradictory statement made by a person called as a witness in
those proceedings is proved by virtue of this section, that statement is
by virtue of this subsection admissible as evidence of any fact stated
therein of which direct oral evidence by the person would be
admissible.

 (4) Where a person called as a witness in any proceedings is
cross‑examined on a document used by him or her to refresh his or her
memory, that document may be made evidence in those proceedings.

 (5) Where a document or any part of a document is received in
evidence by virtue of subsection (4), any statement made in that
document or part by the person using the document to refresh his or
her memory is by virtue of that subsection admissible as evidence of
any fact stated therein of which direct oral evidence by him or her
would be admissible.

 (6) In estimating the weight (if any) to be attached to a statement
admissible in evidence by virtue of this section regard is to be had to
all the circumstances from which any inference can reasonably be
drawn as to the accuracy or otherwise of the statement and, in
particular, to the question whether or not the statement was made
contemporaneously with the occurrence or existence of the facts

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
99  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

stated, and to the question whether or not the maker of the statement
had any incentive to conceal or misrepresent the facts.

 (7) Despite any other written law or rule of practice requiring
evidence to be corroborated or regulating the manner in which
uncorroborated evidence is to be treated, a statement which is
admissible in evidence by virtue of this section is not capable of
corroborating evidence given by the maker of the statement.

Questions lawful in cross-examination

 148. Subject to section 154A, when a witness may be
cross‑examined, the witness may, in addition to the questions
hereinbefore referred to, be asked any questions which tend —

       (a) to test his or her accuracy, veracity or credibility;

       (b) to discover who he or she is and what is his or her position
            in life; or

       (c) to shake his or her credit by injuring his or her character,
            although the answer to such questions might tend, directly
            or indirectly, to criminate him or her, or might expose or
            tend, directly or indirectly, to expose him or her to a
            penalty or forfeiture.

                                                                                                           [20/2018]

When witness to be compelled to answer

 149. If any such question relates to a matter relevant to the suit or
proceeding, section 134 applies thereto.

Court to decide when question is to be asked and when witness
compelled to answer

 150.—(1) If any question relates to a matter not relevant to the suit
or proceeding, except insofar as it affects the credit of the witness by
injuring his or her character, the court is to decide whether or not the
witness is to be compelled to answer it, and may, if it does not think fit
to compel him or her to answer the question, warn the witness that he
or she is not obliged to answer it.

 (2) In exercising its discretion, the court is to have regard to the
following considerations:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        100

(a) such questions are proper if they are of such a nature that
     the truth of the imputation conveyed by them would
     seriously affect the opinion of the court as to the credibility
     of the witness on the matter to which he or she testifies;

(b) such questions are improper if the imputation which they
     convey relates to matters so remote in time or of such
     character that the truth of the imputation would not affect
     or would affect in a slight degree the opinion of the court as
     to the credibility of the witness on the matter to which he or
     she testifies;

          (c) such questions are improper if there is a great disproportion
              between the importance of the imputation made against the
              witness’s character and the importance of his or her
              evidence;

(d) the court may, if it sees fit, draw from the witness’s refusal
     to answer, the inference that the answer, if given, would be
     unfavourable.

Question not to be asked without reasonable grounds

 151. No such question as is referred to in section 150 ought to be
asked unless the person asking it has reasonable grounds for thinking
that the imputation which it conveys is well founded.

                                         Illustrations

     (a) An advocate is instructed by a solicitor that an important witness is a
professional gambler. This is a reasonable ground for asking the witness whether
he or she is a professional gambler.

   (b) An advocate is informed by a person in court that an important witness is a
professional gambler. The informant, on being questioned by the advocate, gives
satisfactory reasons for his or her statement. This is a reasonable ground for
asking the witness whether he or she is a professional gambler.

      (c) A witness of whom nothing whatever is known, is asked at random
whether he or she is a professional gambler. There are here no reasonable
grounds for the question.

    (d) A witness of whom nothing whatever is known being questioned as to his
or her mode of life and means of living gives unsatisfactory answers. This may

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
101  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

be a reasonable ground for asking him or her if he or she is a professional
gambler.

Procedure of court in case of question being asked without
reasonable grounds

 152. If the court is of the opinion that any such question was asked
without reasonable grounds, the court may, if it was asked by any
advocate or solicitor, report the circumstances of the case to the
Supreme Court in order that the Judges may, if they think fit, exercise
the power to suspend or strike off the roll of advocates and solicitors
given to them under the Legal Profession Act 1966.

Indecent and scandalous questions

 153. The court may forbid any questions or inquiries which it
regards as indecent or scandalous, although such questions or
inquiries may have some bearing on the questions before the court,
unless they relate to facts in issue or to matters necessary to be known
in order to determine whether or not the facts in issue existed.

Questions intended to insult or annoy

 154. The court is to forbid any question which appears to it to be
intended to insult or annoy, or which though proper in itself, appears
to the court needlessly offensive in form.

Restrictions on questions and evidence in criminal proceedings
involving sexual offence or child abuse offence

 154A.—(1) In criminal proceedings where the accused is charged
with committing a sexual offence or child abuse offence, the
following are subject to such restrictions as may be provided for in
rules made under subsection (2):

       (a) the questions that may be asked of the alleged victim of the
            offence in cross-examination;

       (b) the evidence that may be adduced about the alleged victim.

                                                                                                           [20/2018]

 (2) The Minister may make rules to provide for —

       (a) the restrictions mentioned in subsection (1);

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        102

(b) any exceptions to those restrictions; and

          (c) any application concerning any such restriction or
              exception.

                                                                                                          [20/2018]

Exclusion of evidence to contradict answers to questions testing
veracity

 155. When a witness has been asked and has answered any question
which is relevant to the inquiry only insofar as it tends to shake the
witness’s credit by injuring his or her character, no evidence may be
given to contradict him or her; but if the witness answers falsely he or
she may afterwards be charged with giving false evidence.

    Exception 1.—If a witness is asked whether he or she has been previously
convicted of any crime and denies it, evidence may be given of his or her
previous conviction.

   Exception 2.—If a witness is asked any question tending to impeach his or her
impartiality and answers it by denying the facts suggested, he or she may be
contradicted.

                                        Illustrations

    (a) A claim against an underwriter is resisted on the ground of fraud.

   The claimant is asked whether in a former transaction he or she had not made a
fraudulent claim. The claimant denies it.

    Evidence is offered to show that the claimant did make such a claim.

    The evidence is inadmissible.

  (b) A witness is asked whether he or she was not dismissed from a situation for
dishonesty. The witness denies it.

    Evidence is offered to show that the witness was dismissed for dishonesty.

    The evidence is not admissible.

    (c) A affirms that on a certain day A saw B at Malacca.

    A is asked whether A was not on that day at Penang. A denies it.

    Evidence is offered to show that A was on that day at Penang.

   The evidence is admissible, not as contradicting A on a fact which affects A’s
credit, but as contradicting the alleged fact that B was seen on the day in question
in Malacca.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
103  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

   (d) A is tried for a rape on B. B is asked in cross-examination whether she has
not had illicit intercourse with C and D. She denies it.

    Evidence is offered to show that she has had such intercourse with C and D.
The evidence is not admissible.

   In each of the cases in illustrations (c) and (d), the witness might, if the denial
was false, be charged with giving false evidence.

   (e) A is asked whether A has not said that A would be revenged on B, against
whom A gives evidence. A denies it.

    A may be contradicted on the ground that the question tends to impeach A’s
impartiality.

Questions by party to his or her own witness

 156. The court may, in its discretion, permit the person who calls a
witness to put any questions to him or her which might be put in
cross‑examination by the adverse party.

Impeaching credit of witness

 157. The credit of a witness may be impeached in the following
ways by the adverse party or, with the consent of the court, by the
party who calls him or her:

       (a) by the evidence of persons who testify that they from their
            knowledge of the witness believe him or her to be
            unworthy of credit;

       (b) by proof that the witness has been bribed, or has accepted
            the offer of a bribe, or has received any other corrupt
            inducement to give his or her evidence;

       (c) by proof of former statements inconsistent with any part of
            his or her evidence which is liable to be contradicted.

     Explanation.—A witness declaring another witness to be unworthy of credit
may not, upon his or her examination-in-chief, give reasons for his or her belief,
but he or she may be asked his or her reasons in cross‑examination, and the
answer which he or she gives cannot be contradicted, though, if they are false, he
or she may afterwards be charged with giving false evidence.

                                         Illustrations

     (a) A sues B for the price of goods sold and delivered to B.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        104

    C says that C delivered the goods to B.

   Evidence is offered to show that on a previous occasion C said that C had not
delivered the goods to B.

    The evidence is admissible.

    (b) A is indicted for the murder of B.

   C says that B, when dying, declared that A had given B the wound of which B
died.

   Evidence is offered to show that on a previous occasion C said that the wound
was not given by A or in his or her presence.

    The evidence is admissible.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

Questions tending to corroborate evidence of relevant fact
admissible

 158.—(1) When a witness whom it is intended to corroborate gives
evidence of any relevant fact, the witness may be questioned as to any
other circumstances which he or she observed at or near to the time or
place at which such relevant fact occurred, if the court is of the
opinion that such circumstances, if proved, would corroborate the
testimony of the witness as to the relevant fact to which he or she
testifies.

 (2) Any rule of law or practice whereby in criminal proceedings the
evidence of one witness is incapable of corroborating the evidence of
another witness is abrogated.

Former statements of witness may be proved to corroborate
later testimony as to same fact

 159. In order to corroborate the testimony of a witness, any former
statement made by such witness, whether written or verbal, on oath,
or in ordinary conversation, relating to the same fact at or about the
time when the fact took place, or before any authority legally
competent to investigate the fact, may be proved.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
105  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

What matters may be proved in connection with proved
statement relevant under section 32 or 33

 160. Whenever any statement relevant under section 32 or 33 is
proved, all matters may be proved either in order to contradict or to
corroborate it, or in order to impeach or confirm the credit of the
person by whom it was made, which might have been proved if that
person had been called as a witness and had denied upon
cross‑examination the truth of the matter suggested.

Evidence not capable of corroboration

 160A. For the purpose of any rule of law or practice that requires
evidence to be corroborated or that regulates the manner in which
uncorroborated evidence is to be treated —

       (a) a statement that is admissible in evidence by virtue of
            section 32(1) is not capable of corroborating evidence
            given by the maker of the statement; and

       (b) a statement that is admissible in evidence by virtue of
            section 32(1)(b) is not capable of corroborating evidence
            given by the person who originally supplied the
            information from which the statement was made.

                                                                                                             [4/2012]

Refreshing memory

 161.—(1) A witness may while under examination refresh his or
her memory by referring to any writing made by himself or herself at
the time of the transaction concerning which he or she is questioned,
or so soon afterwards that the court considers it likely that the
transaction was at that time fresh in his or her memory.

 (2) The witness may also refer to any such writing made by any
other person and read by the witness within the time mentioned in
subsection (1), if, when the witness read it, the witness knew it to be
correct.

 (3) Whenever the witness may refresh his or her memory by
reference to any document, the witness may, with the permission of
the court, refer to a copy of such document if the court is satisfied that
there is sufficient reason for the non‑production of the original.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        106

 (4) An expert may refresh his or her memory by reference to
professional treatises.

Testimony to facts stated in document mentioned in section 161

 162. A witness may also testify to facts mentioned in any such
document as is mentioned in section 161 although the witness has no
specific recollection of the facts themselves, if the witness is sure that
the facts were correctly recorded in the document.

                                          Illustration

    A book-keeper may testify to facts recorded by him or her in books regularly
kept in the course of business if he or she knows that the books were correctly
kept, although he or she has forgotten the particular transactions entered.

Right of adverse party as to writing used to refresh memory

 163. Any writing referred to under section 161 or 162 must be
produced and shown to the adverse party if he or she requires it; such
party may cross‑examine the witness thereupon.

Production and translation of documents

 164.—(1) A witness summoned to produce a document must, if it is
in the witness’s possession or power, bring it to court despite any
objection which there may be to its production or to its admissibility.

 (2) The validity of any such objection is to be decided on by the
court.

 (3) The court, if it sees fit, may inspect the document unless it refers
to affairs of State, or take other evidence to enable it to determine on
its admissibility.

 (4) If for such a purpose it is necessary to cause any document to be
translated, the court may, if it thinks fit, direct the translator to keep
the contents secret unless the document is to be given in evidence;
and if the translator disobeys such direction, the translator shall be
held to have committed an offence under section 166 of the Penal
Code 1871.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
107  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

Giving as evidence document called for and produced on notice

 165. When a party (A) calls for a document which A has given the
other party notice to produce, and such document is produced and
inspected by A, A is bound to give it as evidence if the party producing
it requires A to do so and if it is relevant.

Using as evidence document production of which was refused
on notice

 166. When a party refuses to produce a document which that party
has had notice to produce, that party cannot afterwards use the
document as evidence without the consent of the other party or the
order of the court.

                                          Illustration

    A sues B on an agreement, and gives B notice to produce it. At the trial A calls
for the document, and B refuses to produce it. A gives secondary evidence of its
contents. B seeks to produce the document itself to contradict the secondary
evidence given by A, or in order to show that the agreement is not stamped.
B cannot do so.

Judge’s power to put questions or order production

 167.—(1) The Judge may, in order to discover or to obtain proper
proof of relevant facts, ask any question he or she pleases, in any form
at any time, of any witness or of the parties, about any fact relevant or
irrelevant; and may order the production of any document or thing;
and neither the parties nor their agents are entitled to make any
objection to any such question or order, nor, without the permission of
the court, to cross‑examine any witness upon any answer given in
reply to any such question.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (2) The judgment must be based upon facts declared by this Act to
be relevant and duly proved.

 (3) This section does not authorise any Judge to compel any witness
to answer any question or to produce any document which such
witness would be entitled to refuse to answer or produce under
sections 123 to 133 if the question were asked or the document were
called for by the adverse party.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        108

(4) The Judge must not —

(a) ask any question which it would be improper for any other
     person to ask under section 150 or 151; or

(b) dispense with the primary evidence of any document,

except in the cases excepted in this Act.

Power of assessors to put questions

 168. In cases tried with assessors, the assessors may put any
questions to the witnesses through or by permission of the Judge,
which the Judge himself or herself might put and which he or she
considers proper.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

             Improper admission and rejection of evidence

No new trial for improper admission or rejection of evidence

 169. The improper admission or rejection of evidence is not ground
of itself for a new trial or reversal of any decision in any case if it
appears to the court before which such objection is raised that,
independently of the evidence objected to and admitted, there was
sufficient evidence to justify the decision, or that, if the rejected
evidence had been received, it ought not to have varied the decision.

                                    PART 4

                            BANKERS’ BOOKS

Interpretation of this Part

 170. In this Part —

      “bank” and “banker” mean any company carrying on the
         business of bankers in Singapore under a licence granted
         under any law relating to banking;

      “bankers’ books” includes ledgers, day books, cash books,
         account books and all other books used in the ordinary
         business of the bank;

      “court” means the General Division of the High Court;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
109  Evidence Act 1893                                        2020 Ed.

     “legal proceeding” means any civil or criminal proceeding or
        inquiry in which evidence is or may be given, and includes an
        arbitration.

                                                              [40/2019]

Mode of proof of entries in bankers’ books

 171. Subject to this Part, a copy of any entry in a banker’s book is in
all legal proceedings to be received as prima facie evidence of such
entry and of the matters, transactions and accounts therein recorded.

Proof that book is a banker’s book

 172.—(1) A copy of an entry in a banker’s book is not to be
received in evidence under this Part unless it is first proved that —

       (a) the book was, at the time of the making of the entry, one of
            the ordinary books of the bank;

       (b) the entry was made in the usual and ordinary course of
            business; and

       (c) the book is in the custody or control of the bank.

 (2) Such proof may be given by an officer of the bank and may be
given orally or by an affidavit sworn before any commissioner for
oaths or person authorised to take affidavits.

Verification of copy

 173.—(1) A copy of an entry in a banker’s book is not to be
received in evidence under this Part unless it is further proved that the
copy has been examined with the original entry and is correct.

 (2) Such proof is to be given by some person who has examined the
copy with the original entry, and may be given either orally or by an
affidavit sworn before any commissioner for oaths or person
authorised to take affidavits.

Production by, or appearance of, officer of bank

 174. An officer of a bank is not, in any legal proceedings to which
the bank is not a party, compellable to produce any banker’s book the
contents of which can be proved under this Part, or to appear as a

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Evidence Act 1893                                        110

witness to prove the matters, transactions and accounts therein
recorded, unless by order of a judge made for special cause.

Court or Judge may order inspection

 175.—(1) On the application of any party to a legal proceeding, the
court or a Judge may order that such party be at liberty to inspect and
take copies of any entries in a banker’s book for any of the purposes
of such proceedings.

 (2) An order under this section may be made either on or without
summoning the bank or any other party, and must be served on the
bank 3 clear days before the same is to be obeyed unless the court or
Judge otherwise directs.

Costs

 176.—(1) The costs of any application to the court or a Judge under
this Part, and the costs of anything done or to be done under an order
of the court or a Judge made under this Part, shall be in the discretion
of the court or Judge, who may order the same or any part thereof to
be paid to any party by the bank where the same have been
occasioned by any fault or delay on the part of the bank.

 (2) Any such order against a bank may be enforced as if the bank
were a party to the proceeding.

                                    PART 5

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Amendment of Schedules

 177. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend the First and
Second Schedules.

                                                                                                           [20/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
111                       Evidence Act 1893                      2020 Ed.

                          FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                  Sections 3(1) and 177

             CHILD ABUSE OFFENCES AND
                    SEXUAL OFFENCES

                             PART 1

                CHILD ABUSE OFFENCES

1. Any offence under section 6(1), 7, 8, 14(2), 16 or 17 of the Children and
   Young Persons Act 1993.

2. Any offence under section 377BG, 377BH, 377BI, 377BJ, 377BK or 377BL
   of the Penal Code 1871.

                                         PART 2

                                SEXUAL OFFENCES

1. Any offence under section 354, 354A, 355, 372, 373, 373A, 375, 376, 376A,
   376AA, 376B, 376C, 376D, 376E, 376EA, 376EB, 376EC, 376ED, 376EE,
   376F, 376G, 376H, 377(3), 377B(3), 377BA, 377BB, 377BC, 377BD,
   377BE or 377BF of the Penal Code 1871.

                                                                            [Act 39 of 2022 wef 03/01/2023]

2. Any offence under section 140, 141, 142, 143, 144, 145, 146, 146A, 147 or
   148 of the Women’s Charter 1961.

                                                                                            [20/2018; 15/2019]

             SECOND SCHEDULE

     Statutory Body                                     Sections 80A and 177

                                Act under which established

1. Building and Construction    Building and Construction Authority
   Authority                    Act 1999.

2. Central Provident Fund Board Central Provident Fund Act 1953.

3. Civil Aviation Authority of  Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore
   Singapore                    Act 2009.

4. Civil Service College        Civil Service College Act 2001.

5. Defence Science and Technology Defence Science and Technology

     Agency                     Agency Act 2000.

6. Enterprise Singapore Board   Enterprise Singapore Board Act 2018.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.                    Evidence Act 1893                        112

           SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

          Statutory Body         Act under which established

7. Economic Development Board Economic Development Board
                                             Act 1961.

8. Health Sciences Authority     Health Sciences Authority Act 2001.

9. Home Team Science and         Home Team Science and Technology
   Technology Agency             Agency Act 2019.

10. Housing and Development Board Housing and Development Act 1959.

11. Info‑communications Media    Info‑communications Media
     Development Authority       Development Authority Act 2016.

12. Inland Revenue Authority of  Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore
     Singapore                   Act 1992.

13. Intellectual Property Office of Intellectual Property Office of

Singapore                        Singapore Act 2001.

14. Jurong Town Corporation      Jurong Town Corporation Act 1968.

15. Land Transport Authority of  Land Transport Authority of Singapore
     Singapore                   Act 1995.

16. Maritime and Port Authority of Maritime and Port Authority of

Singapore                        Singapore Act 1996.

17. Monetary Authority of Singapore Monetary Authority of Singapore
                                               Act 1970.

18. National Parks Board         National Parks Board Act 1996.

19. Public Utilities Board       Public Utilities Act 2001.

20. Singapore Food Agency        Singapore Food Agency Act 2019.

21. Singapore Land Authority     Singapore Land Authority Act 2001.

22. Singapore Tourism Board      Singapore Tourism Board Act 1963.

23. Urban Redevelopment Authority Urban Redevelopment Authority
                                               Act 1989.

                              [4/99; 41/99; 9/2000; 3/2001; 17/2001; 3/2005; 17/2009;
                                          20/2018; S 613/2001; S 210/2011; S 174/2019;
                                                                     S 738/2019; S 831/2021]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                           EVIDENCE ACT 1893

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                PART 1
      EVIDENCE (BANKERS’ BOOKS) ORDINANCE

           (CHAPTER 5, 1955 REVISED EDITION)

1. Ordinance XII of 1890 — The Bankers’ Books Evidence Ordinance 1890

Bill            : G.N. No. 495/1890

First Reading   : 2 October 1890

Second Reading  : 24 October 1890

Third Reading   : 30 October 1890

Commencement    : 30 October 1890

2. 1920 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 50 (Bankers’ Books Evidence)

Operation       : 28 November 1921

3. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 50 (Bankers’ Books Evidence)

Operation       : 1 August 1926

4. 1936 Revised Edition — Bankers’ Books Evidence Ordinance
                                    (Chapter 17)

Operation       : 1 September 1936

5. Ordinance 44 of 1949 — Bankers’ Books Evidence (Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1949

Bill            : G.N. No. S 451/1949

First Reading   : 19 October 1949

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                      ii

Second and Third Readings : 15 November 1949

Commencement          : 23 November 1949

6. 1955 Revised Edition — Evidence (Bankers’ Books) Ordinance
                                    (Chapter 5)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

7. L.N. 71/1965 (G.N. Sp. No. S 39/1965) — Modification of Laws (Evidence)
                                                       (Borneo States and Singapore)
                                                       Order, 1965

Commencement          : 4 March 1965

                            PART 2
                  EVIDENCE ACT 1893
                (2020 REVISED EDITION)

8. Ordinance III of 1893 — The Evidence Ordinance 1893

Bill                  : G.N. No. 80/1893

First Reading         : 23 February 1893

Second Reading        : 2 March 1893

Notice of Amendments  : 23 March 1893

Third Reading         : 23 March 1893

Commencement          : 1 July 1893

Note: This Ordinance repealed Act XV of 1852 and Act II of 1855.

9. Ordinance XII of 1895 — The Evidence Ordinance Amendment
                                      Ordinance 1895

Bill                  : G.N. No. 625/1895

First Reading         : 31 October 1895

Second Reading        : 6 November 1895

Third Reading         : 18 November 1895

Commencement          : 18 November 1895

10. Ordinance XXIX of 1907 — The Evidence Ordinance Amendment
                                           Ordinance 1907

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1072/1907

First Reading         : 18 October 1907

Second Reading        : 15 November 1907

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                      iii

Notice of Amendments  : 22 November 1907

Third Reading         : 10 December 1907

Commencement          : 10 December 1907

11. 1920 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 53 (Evidence)

Operation             : 28 November 1921

12. Ordinance 32 of 1922 — Statute Laws (Revised Edition) Amendment
                                      Ordinance, 1922

     (Amendments made by section 12(1) read with the Schedule to the above
     Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1158/1922

First Reading         : 14 August 1922

Second Reading        : 11 September 1922

Notice of Amendments  : 23 October 1922

Third Reading         : 23 October 1922

Commencement          : 28 November 1921 (section 12(1) read
                            with the Schedule)

13. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 53 (Evidence)

Operation             : 1 August 1926

14. Ordinance 29 of 1935 — Evidence (Amendment) Ordinance 1935

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1499/1935

First Reading         : 17 June 1935

Second Reading        : 26 August 1935

Notice of Amendments  : 26 August 1935

Third Reading         : 26 August 1935

Commencement          : 6 September 1935

15. 1936 Revised Edition — Evidence Ordinance (Chapter 13)

Operation             : 1 September 1936

16. Ordinance 8 of 1955 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Miscellaneous
                                    Amendments) Ordinance, 1955

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with item 2 of the Schedule to the above
     Ordinance)

Bill                  : 45/1954

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                         iv

First Reading            : 14 December 1954

Second and Third Readings : 28 January 1955

Commencement             : 4 February 1955 (section 2 read with
                               item 2 of the Schedule)

17. 1955 Revised Edition — Evidence Ordinance (Chapter 4)

Operation                : 1 July 1956

18. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 177/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 3) Order, 1959

Commencement             : 20 November 1959

19. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 178/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 4) Order, 1959

Commencement             : 20 November 1959

20. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 179/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 5) Order, 1959

Commencement             : 20 November 1959

21. Ordinance 72 of 1959 — Transfer of Powers (No. 2) Ordinance, 1959
     (Amendments made by section 3 read with the Second Schedule to the above
     Ordinance)

Bill                     : 31/1959

First Reading            : 22 September 1959

Second Reading           : 11 November 1959

Notice of Amendments     : 11 November 1959

Third Reading            : 11 November 1959

Commencement             : 20 November 1959 (section 3 read
                               with the Second Schedule)

22. Ordinance 17 of 1960 — Evidence (Amendment) Ordinance, 1960

Bill                     : 14/1959

First Reading            : 13 August 1959

Second Reading           : 2 September 1959

Select Committee Report  : Sessional Paper No. L.A. 2 of 1960

Third Reading            : 13 February 1960

Commencement             : 26 February 1960

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                         v

23. L.N. 71/1965 (G.N. Sp. No. S 39/1965) — Modification of Laws (Evidence)
                                                        (Borneo States and Singapore)
                                                        Order, 1965

Commencement             : 4 March 1965

24. G.N. No. S 39/1966 — Modification of Laws (Evidence) Order, 1966

Commencement             : 4 March 1966

25. 1966 Reprint — Evidence Ordinance (Chapter 4)

Reprint                  : 9 March 1966

26. Act 14 of 1969 — Statute Law Revision Act, 1969
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the First Schedule to the above
     Act)

Bill                     : 22/1969

First Reading            : 15 October 1969

Second Reading           : 22 December 1969

Notice of Amendments     : 22 December 1969

Third Reading            : 22 December 1969

Commencement             : 2 January 1970 (section 2 read with
                               the First Schedule)

27. 1970 Revised Edition — Evidence Act (Chapter 5)

Operation                : 1 March 1971

Note: This Revised Edition incorporated the Evidence (Bankers’ Books)
        Ordinance (Chapter 5, 1955 Revised Edition).

28. Act 11 of 1976 — Evidence (Amendment) Act, 1976

Bill                     : 34/1975

First Reading            : 29 July 1975

Second Reading           : 19 August 1975

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 5 of 1976

Third Reading            : 23 July 1976

Commencement             : 1 January 1977

29. 1982 Reprint — Evidence Act (Chapter 5)

Reprint                  : 1 October 1982

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
               vi

30. 1985 Revised Edition — Evidence Act (Chapter 97)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

31. Act 28 of 1987 — Evidence (Amendment) Act 1987

Bill           : 19/1987

First Reading  : 9 November 1987

Second and Third Readings : 30 November 1987

Commencement   : 1 February 1988

32. 1990 Revised Edition — Evidence Act (Chapter 97)

Operation      : 15 March 1990

33. G.N. No. S 414/1992 — Evidence Act (Amendment of Schedule)
                                    Order 1992

Commencement   : 25 September 1992

34. Act 29 of 1995 — Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995
     (Amendments made by section 45 read with paragraph 2 of the Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill           : 25/1995

First Reading  : 7 July 1995

Second and Third Readings : 7 August 1995

Commencement   : 1 September 1995 (section 45 read
                     with paragraph 2 of the Schedule)

35. Act 7 of 1996 — Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore Act 1996
     (Amendments made by section 121(4) read with item (4) of the Fourth
     Schedule to the above Act)

Bill           : 46/1995

First Reading  : 5 December 1995

Second and Third Readings : 18 January 1996

Commencement   : 2 February 1996 (section 121(4) read
                     with item (4) of the Fourth Schedule)

36. Act 8 of 1996 — Evidence (Amendment) Act 1996

Bill           : 45/1995

First Reading  : 5 December 1995

Second and Third Readings : 18 January 1996

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                      vii

Commencement          : 8 March 1996

37. Act 1 of 1996 — Singapore Productivity and Standards Board Act 1995
     (Amendments made by section 44 read with item 3 of the Third Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                  : 39/1995

First Reading         : 1 November 1995

Second Reading        : 5 December 1995

Notice of Amendments  : 5 December 1995

Third Reading         : 5 December 1995

Commencement          : 1 April 1996 (section 44 read with
                            item 3 of the Third Schedule)

38. Act 7 of 1997 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1997
     (Amendments made by section 6 read with item (5) of the First Schedule and
     section 7 read with item (14) of the Second Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 6/1997

First Reading         : 11 July 1997

Second and Third Readings : 25 August 1997

Commencement          : 1 October 1997 (section 6 read with
                            item (5) of the First Schedule and
                            section 7 read with item (14) of the
                            Second Schedule)

39. 1997 Revised Edition — Evidence Act (Chapter 97)

Operation             : 20 December 1997

40. Act 25 of 1998 — Electronic Transactions Act 1998
     (Amendments made by section 64 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 23/1998

First Reading         : 1 June 1998

Second and Third Readings : 29 June 1998

Commencement          : 10 July 1998 (section 64)

41. Act 37 of 1998 — Post Office Savings Bank of Singapore (Transfer of
                             Undertakings and Dissolution) Act 1998

     (Amendments made by section 19 read with item (4) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 34/1998

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                      viii

First Reading         : 31 July 1998

Second Reading        : 12 October 1998

Notice of Amendments  : 12 October 1998

Third Reading         : 12 October 1998

Commencement          : 16 November 1998 (section 19 read
                            with item (4) of the Schedule)

42. Act 41 of 1999 — Info-communications Development Authority of
                             Singapore Act 1999

     (Amendments made by section 31(1) read with paragraph 8(2) of the Fourth
     Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 36/1999

First Reading         : 11 October 1999

Second and Third Readings : 23 November 1999

Commencement          : 1 December 1999 (section 31(1) read
                            with paragraph 8(2) of the Fourth
                            Schedule)

43. Act 9 of 2000 — Defence Science and Technology Agency Act 2000
     (Amendments made by section 34 read with item (2) of the Third Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                  : 1/2000

First Reading         : 17 January 2000

Second and Third Readings : 21 February 2000

Commencement          : 15 March 2000 (section 34 read with
                            item (2) of the Third Schedule)

44. Act 3 of 2001 — Intellectual Property Office of Singapore Act 2001
     (Amendments made by section 38(1) read with item (3) of the Fourth
     Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 1/2001

First Reading         : 12 January 2001

Second and Third Readings : 22 February 2001

Commencement          : 1 April 2001 (section 38(1) read with
                            item (3) of the Fourth Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                ix

45. Act 17 of 2001 — Singapore Land Authority Act 2001
     (Amendments made by section 38(1) read with item (4) of the Fourth
     Schedule to the above Act)

Bill            : 17/2001

First Reading   : 5 March 2001

Second and Third Readings : 19 April 2001

Commencement    : 1 June 2001 (section 38(1) read with
                      item (4) of the Fourth Schedule)

46. G.N. No. S 613/2001 — Evidence Act (Amendment of Schedule)
                                    Order 2001

Commencement    : 12 December 2001

47. Act 17 of 2003 — Evidence (Amendment) Act 2003

Bill            : 16/2003

First Reading   : 14 August 2003

Second and Third Readings : 2 September 2003

Commencement    : 26 September 2003

48. Act 3 of 2005 — CISCO (Dissolution) Act 2005
     (Amendments made by section 16 read with item (3) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill            : 52/2004

First Reading   : 19 October 2004

Second and Third Readings : 25 January 2005

Commencement    : 10 June 2005 (section 16 read with
                      item (3) of the Schedule)

49. Act 51 of 2007 — Penal Code (Amendment) Act 2007
     (Amendments made by section 107 read with item (3) of the Third Schedule
     to the above Act)

Bill            : 38/2007

First Reading   : 17 September 2007

Second Reading  : 22 October 2007

Third Reading   : 23 October 2007

Commencement    : 1 February 2008 (section 107 read
                      with item (3) of the Third Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                x

50. Act 17 of 2009 — Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore Act 2009
     (Amendments made by section 104 read with item 4 of the Fourth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill            : 10/2009

First Reading   : 23 March 2009

Second and Third Readings : 13 April 2009

Commencement    : 1 July 2009 (section 104 read with
                      item 4 of the Fourth Schedule)

51. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 39 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill            : 11/2010

First Reading   : 26 April 2010

Second Reading  : 18 May 2010

Third Reading   : 19 May 2010

Commencement    : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                      item 39 of the Sixth Schedule)

52. G.N. No. S 210/2011 — Evidence Act (Amendment of Schedule)
                                    Order 2011

Commencement    : 1 May 2011

53. Act 4 of 2012 — Evidence (Amendment) Act 2012

Bill            : 2/2012

First Reading   : 16 January 2012

Second and Third Readings : 14 February 2012

Commencement    : 1 August 2012

54. Act 5 of 2014 — Subordinate Courts (Amendment) Act 2014
     (Amendments made by section 11(9) read with item 10 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill            : 26/2013

First Reading   : 11 November 2013

Second and Third Readings : 21 January 2014

Commencement    : 7 March 2014 (section 11(9) read with
                      item 10 of the Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                      xi

55. Act 27 of 2014 — Family Justice Act 2014
     (Amendments made by section 57 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 21/2014

First Reading         : 8 July 2014

Second Reading        : 4 August 2014

Notice of Amendments  : 4 August 2014

Third Reading         : 4 August 2014

Commencement          : 1 October 2014 (section 57)

56. Act 16 of 2013 — Status of Children (Assisted Reproduction Technology)
                           Act 2013

     (Amendments made by section 16 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 12/2013

First Reading         : 8 July 2013

Second and Third Readings : 12 August 2013

Commencement          : 1 October 2014 (section 16)

57. Act 41 of 2014 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments — Deputy
                             Attorney-General) Act 2014

     (Amendments made by section 4 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 37/2014

First Reading         : 7 October 2014

Second and Third Readings : 4 November 2014

Commencement          : 1 January 2015 (section 4)

58. Act 16 of 2016 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2016
     (Amendments made by section 6 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 15/2016

First Reading         : 14 April 2016

Second and Third Readings : 9 May 2016

Commencement          : 10 June 2016 (section 6)

59. Act 19 of 2018 — Criminal Justice Reform Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 124 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 14/2018

First Reading         : 28 February 2018

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                      xii

Second and Third Readings : 19 March 2018

Commencement          : 17 September 2018 (section 124)

60. Act 20 of 2018 — Evidence (Amendment) Act 2018

Bill                  : 15/2018

First Reading         : 28 February 2018

Second and Third Readings : 19 March 2018

Commencement          : 31 October 2018

61. G.N. No. S 174/2019 — Evidence Act (Amendment of Second Schedule)
                                    Order 2019

Commencement          : 1 April 2019

62. G.N. No. S 738/2019 — Evidence Act (Amendment of Second Schedule)
                                    (No. 2) Order 2019

Commencement          : 1 December 2019

63. Act 15 of 2019 — Criminal Law Reform Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 174 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 6/2019

First Reading         : 11 February 2019

Second Reading        : 6 May 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 6 May 2019

Third Reading         : 6 May 2019

Commencement          : 1 January 2020 (section 174)

64. Act 30 of 2019 — Children and Young Persons (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 64 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 22/2019

First Reading         : 5 August 2019

Second and Third Readings : 3 September 2019

Commencement          : 1 July 2020 (section 64)

65. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 52 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                      xiii

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 52 of the Schedule)

66. Act 38 of 2020 — Apostille Act 2020
     (Amendments made by section 21(1) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 35/2020

First Reading         : 5 October 2020

Second and Third Readings : 2 November 2020

Commencement          : 16 September 2021 (section 21(1))

67. G.N. No. S 831/2021 — Evidence Act (Amendment of Second Schedule)
                                    Order 2021

Commencement          : 1 November 2021

68. 2020 Revised Edition — Evidence Act 1893

Operation             : 31 December 2021

69. Act 33 of 2021 — Judicial Service (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2021

Bill                  : 30/2021

First Reading         : 4 October 2021

Second and Third Readings : 3 November 2021

Commencement          : 14 January 2022

70. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by Part 7 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 18/2021

First Reading         : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement          : 1 April 2022

71. Act 23 of 2022 — Public Defenders Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 17/2022

First Reading         : 4 July 2022

Second and Third Readings : 1 August 2022

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
               xiv

Commencement   : 1 December 2022

72. Act 39 of 2022 — Penal Code (Amendment) Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 31/2022

First Reading  : 20 October 2022

Second and Third Readings : 29 November 2022

Commencement   : 3 January 2023

73. Act 29 of 2022 — National Symbols Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 21/2022

First Reading  : 2 August 2022

Second and Third Readings : 13 September 2022

Commencement   : 1 August 2023

74. Act 5 of 2025 — Electronic Gazette and Legislation Act 2025

Bill           : 47/2024

First Reading  : 11 November 2024

Second and Third Readings : 7 January 2025

Commencement   : 9 March 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
.                                 xv
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                           COMPARATIVE TABLE
                            EVIDENCE ACT 1893

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    1997 Ed.
—                          80A—(6) [Deleted by Act 20 of 2018]
167—(3) and (4)            167—(3)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
