THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
            EDUCATION SERVICE INCENTIVE
                       PAYMENT ACT 2001

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                                 2020 Ed.

Education Service Incentive
     Payment Act 2001

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                        PART 2

                                  CONNECT PLAN

 3. Establishment of CONNECT Plan
 4. Awards not as of right
 5. Saving for powers of dismissal of employer
 6. Non-assignability or attachment, etc., of awards
 7. Contributions excluded from bankrupt member’s property
 8. Effect on conviction, dismissal, etc., on awards and

         contributions
 9. Awards not part of member’s estate
10. Recovery of awards paid in ignorance of disqualifying facts

                                        PART 3

                                 CONNECT FUND

11. Establishment of CONNECT Fund
12. Purposes of Fund
13. Fund surpluses
14. Withdrawals

                                        PART 4
                          AUDIT AND ACCOUNTING
15. Accounts, financial statements and audit
16. Appointment, powers and duties of auditor

                                                      1

                                                         31.12.2021
   Education Service Incentive

2  Payment Act 2001                      2020 Ed.

Section
   17. Periodic examination of Fund
   18. Rules for administration of Fund

An Act to establish a scheme known as the CONNECT Plan to
  encourage long service by teachers under the control or
  management of the Government and the CONNECT Fund for the
  purpose of that Plan and for matters connected therewith.

                                                              [1 January 2002]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Education Service Incentive Payment Act 2001.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “aided school” means a school which —
              (a) is established by any person other than the
                   Government; and

              (b) is conducted by a committee of management which is
                   in receipt of a grant-in-aid from the Government for
                   the defraying of the expenses incurred for conducting
                   the school,

         but excludes an independent school;
      “CONNECT Plan” means the CONNECT Plan established by

         regulations made under section 3;
      “Fund” means the CONNECT Fund established under

         section 11;
      “Government school” means any school that is established by

         and under the management of the Government but excludes
         an independent school;
          Education Service Incentive

2020 Ed.  Payment Act 2001                                      3

“independent school” means any school that is —

          (a) specified in any order made under section 3(1) of the
               School Boards (Incorporation) Act 1990; or

          (b) a school which is declared by the Minister by
               notification in the Gazette to be an independent
               school for the purposes of this Act;

“qualifying service” means teaching service prescribed to be
   qualifying service;

“school” includes a junior college and a centralised institute but
   excludes any tertiary institute or training institute;

“teaching duties” includes —

          (a) the administration of any school;

          (b) the inspection or supervision of individuals engaged
               in teaching duties in any school; and

          (c) other duties connected with the teaching or other
              services provided at any school, being duties for the
              performance of which experience as a teacher is an
              advantage;

“teaching service” means service, whether part-time or
   full-time —

          (a) as a public officer in the Education Service; or

          (b) as an employee of an aided school for teaching duties.

                                    PART 2

                              CONNECT PLAN

Establishment of CONNECT Plan
 3.—(1) The Minister must by regulations establish a scheme to be

known as the CONNECT Plan for the benefit of —

       (a) all public officers appointed (whether before or after the
            commencement of the regulations) to the permanent

                                                 31.12.2021
   Education Service Incentive

4  Payment Act 2001                                  2020 Ed.

   establishment in the Education Service and who are below
   Superscale grade; and

   (b) all individuals employed other than for a term (whether
        before or after the commencement of the regulations) by
        the managers of any aided school for teaching duties, and
        who are remunerated on terms equivalent to any public
        officer mentioned in paragraph (a),

who, on or after the commencement of those regulations, will be
members of the scheme.

 (2) The regulations made under subsection (1) must provide for the
payment of an award —

   (a) to a member of the CONNECT Plan; or
   (b) if the member dies before such payment —

   (i) to such of the member’s dependants as the Minister
       thinks fit; or

   (ii) if the member has no dependants, to the member’s
        legal personal representative,

on account of the member completing the prescribed period of
qualifying service.

   (3) The regulations made under subsection (1) must provide —

   (a) for the payment of contributions by the Government to the
        CONNECT Fund in respect of each member, including
        prescribing different contributions for different classes of
        members;

   (b) for the circumstances under which such contributions and
        awards may be withheld or restored; and

   (c) for the determination of qualifying service.

Awards not as of right

 4. No member has an absolute right to compensation for past
service or to any award under the CONNECT Plan.
          Education Service Incentive

2020 Ed.  Payment Act 2001                  5

Saving for powers of dismissal of employer

 5. Nothing in this Act or any regulations made under section 3
limits any right of the Public Service Commission, or any of its
delegates, or the managers of any aided school to dismiss without
compensation any member from its teaching service.

Non-assignability or attachment, etc., of awards

 6. No award payable under the CONNECT Plan, no contribution by
the Government made under the CONNECT Plan and no interest
thereon (if any) is assignable or transferable, or liable to be garnished,
attached, sequestered or levied upon for or in respect of any debt or
claim, other than —

       (a) a debt due to the Government; or

       (b) an order of court for the payment of periodical sums of
            money towards the maintenance of the wife or former wife
            or minor child (whether legitimate or not) of the member to
            whom the award has been granted.

Contributions excluded from bankrupt member’s property

 7.—(1) No contribution by the Government made under the
CONNECT Plan and no interest on the contribution (if any) is to
be subject to the debts of any member of the CONNECT Plan.

 (2) No contribution and interest mentioned in subsection (1) is to
pass to the Official Assignee on the bankruptcy of a member, and if
the member is adjudicated a bankrupt, such contribution and interest
(if any) are deemed excluded from the property of the bankrupt for
the purposes of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act
2018.

                                                                                                           [40/2018]

Effect on conviction, dismissal, etc., on awards and
contributions

 8.—(1) It is lawful for the Minister to withhold or refuse to pay (in
whole or in part) any award which would under this Act or the
regulations made under section 3 be paid to a member if, at the date of
the payment of the award, the member —

                                            31.12.2021
   Education Service Incentive

6  Payment Act 2001             2020 Ed.

   (a) has been convicted and sentenced to death or any term of
        imprisonment, by any court of competent jurisdiction,
        whether in Singapore or elsewhere, for any crime or
        offence and has not received a free pardon; or

   (b) has been dismissed, reduced in rank or charged with any
        disciplinary charge for any negligence, irregularity or
        misconduct in the teaching service.

 (2) It is also lawful for the Minister to withhold or refuse (in whole
or in part) any contribution which is required by this Act or the
regulations made under section 3 to be made by the Government on
account of a member under the CONNECT Plan if, at the date the
contribution is due, the member —

   (a) has been convicted and sentenced to death or any term of
        imprisonment, by any court of competent jurisdiction,
        whether in Singapore or elsewhere, for any crime or
        offence and has not received a free pardon; or

   (b) has been dismissed, reduced in rank or charged with any
        disciplinary charge for any negligence, irregularity or
        misconduct in the teaching service.

Awards not part of member’s estate

 9. Subject to the provisions of any regulations made under
section 3, all moneys paid or payable under the CONNECT Plan in
respect of a deceased member are not to be deemed to form part of his
or her estate or be subject to the payment of his or her debts but are
deemed to be property passing on his or her death for the purposes of
the Estate Duty Act 1929.

Recovery of awards paid in ignorance of disqualifying facts

 10. It is a condition of the payment of every award under the
CONNECT Plan that the Government may recover, cancel or reduce
it if it is shown to have been obtained by the wilful suppression of
material facts or to have been paid in ignorance of facts which, had
the facts been known before the payment of that award to the
member, would have justified the member’s dismissal from the
teaching service or a reduction of the member’s salary.
          Education Service Incentive

2020 Ed.  Payment Act 2001             7

          PART 3

          CONNECT FUND

Establishment of CONNECT Fund

 11.—(1) A fund called the CONNECT Fund is established, into
which must be paid all the following moneys:

(a) the sums appropriated from the Consolidated Fund and
     authorised to be paid into the Fund by or under any written
     law as contributions under the CONNECT Plan or to
     enable the Fund to meet its liabilities under this Act or any
     other written law;

(b) all revenues of Singapore allocated by written law to the
     Fund;

          (c) the net income from investments of moneys in the Fund
              authorised to be made by this Act or any other written law.

 (2) The Fund must be regarded as a Government fund and as
comprising public moneys for the purposes of any other written law.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1)(c), the net income from
investments is the amount ascertained by adding to, or deducting
from, the income received from investments of moneys in the Fund
any profit derived or loss sustained (as the case may be) from the
realisation of those investments.

Purposes of Fund

 12. The moneys in the Fund may only be withdrawn and applied to
meet any one or more of the following purposes:

       (a) the payment of any award under the CONNECT Plan;

       (b) all expenses incidental to or arising from the
            administration, investment and management of the Fund,
            including the cost of auditing the accounts of the Fund;

       (c) any other purposes related to aided schools or Government
            schools that may be prescribed by the Minister by
            notification in the Gazette.

                                       31.12.2021
                Education Service Incentive

8               Payment Act 2001             2020 Ed.

Fund surpluses

 13. The Minister may, by warrant under the hand of the Minister,
authorise the transfer to the Consolidated Fund any moneys in the
Fund which, in the opinion of the Minister and the Minister for
Finance, are not immediately required to meet the liabilities or the
purposes of the Fund.

Withdrawals

 14.—(1) Moneys must not be withdrawn from the Fund unless they
are charged upon the Fund or are authorised or directed to be
withdrawn or transferred under this Act.

 (2) A payment must not be made out of the Fund unless the
payment is authorised by the Minister.

                                    PART 4

                      AUDIT AND ACCOUNTING

Accounts, financial statements and audit

 15.—(1) The Minister is responsible for the administration of the
Fund.

 (2) The Minister must cause to be kept proper accounts and records
of all transactions and affairs relating to the Fund and must do all
things necessary to ensure that payments out of the Fund are correctly
made and properly authorised and that adequate control is maintained
over the assets and receipts of the Fund.

 (3) The Minister must, as soon as practicable after the close of each
financial year, cause to be prepared and submitted financial
statements in respect of that year to the auditor mentioned in
section 16.

 (4) The financial year of the Fund begins on 1 April of each year
and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

Appointment, powers and duties of auditor

 16.—(1) The accounts and annual financial statements of the Fund
must be audited by the Auditor-General or any other auditor that may
          Education Service Incentive

2020 Ed.  Payment Act 2001                            9

be appointed annually by the Minister in consultation with the
Auditor-General.

 (2) A person is not qualified for appointment as an auditor under
subsection (1) unless that person is a public accountant within the
meaning of the Accountants Act 2004.

                                                                                                             [5/2004]

 (3) The auditor’s remuneration is to be charged upon the Fund.

 (4) The auditor or any person authorised by the auditor is entitled at
all reasonable times to full and free access to all accounting and other
records relating, directly or indirectly, to the financial transactions of
the Fund and may make copies of, or extracts from, any such
accounting and other records.

 (5) The auditor or any person authorised by the auditor may require
any person to provide the auditor or person authorised by the auditor
any information in that person’s possession or to which that person
has access which the auditor considers necessary for the purposes of
the auditor’s functions under this Act.

 (6) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with any requirement of the auditor under subsection (5) or who
otherwise hinders, obstructs or delays the auditor in the performance
of the auditor’s duties or the exercise of the auditor’s powers shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1,000.

(7) The auditor must in the auditor’s report state —

(a) whether the financial statements show fairly the financial
     transactions and the state of affairs of the Fund;

(b) whether proper accounting and other records have been
     kept, including records of all assets of the Fund;

          (c) whether receipts, expenditure, and investment of moneys
              and the acquisition and disposal of assets on account of the
              Fund during the financial year were in accordance with the
              provisions of this Act; and

(d) any other matters arising from the audit that the auditor
     considers necessary.

                                                      31.12.2021
    Education Service Incentive

10  Payment Act 2001             2020 Ed.

(8) The auditor must —

    (a) as soon as practicable, after the accounts have been
         submitted for audit, send a report of the audit to the
         Minister; and

    (b) submit such periodical and special reports to the Minister
         as may appear to the auditor to be necessary or as the
         Minister may require.

 (9) Where the Auditor-General is not the auditor of the Fund, a
copy of the audited financial statements and any report made by the
auditor must be forwarded to the Auditor-General when they are
submitted to the Minister.

 (10) The Minister must, as soon as practicable, cause a copy of the
audited financial statements and the auditor’s report to be presented
to Parliament.

Periodic examination of Fund

 17.—(1) For successive periods of any duration, not exceeding
5 years, determined by the Minister in each case, an examination of
the Fund must be made by a person appointed by the Minister with a
view to determining the state of the Fund having regard to its
prospective liabilities and the probable annual provisions required by
the Fund to meet those liabilities.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), where an amendment is made to the
CONNECT Plan, and the amendment affects the cost of benefits
payable under the CONNECT Plan or creates an initial unfunded
liability, the Minister may, for the purposes of section 11(1)(a),
appoint a person to make an examination and report on the state of the
Fund.

 (3) The person appointed under subsection (1) or (2) must, at the
end of the person’s examination, report to the Minister for Finance
and the Minister the state of the Fund having regard to its prospective
liabilities and the probable annual provisions required by the Fund to
meet those liabilities.

 (4) The Minister must cause a copy of every such report to be
presented to Parliament forthwith after receiving it.
          Education Service Incentive

2020 Ed.  Payment Act 2001             11

Rules for administration of Fund

 18. The Minister may make rules for the proper control and
management of the Fund.

                                       31.12.2021
                  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

           EDUCATION SERVICE INCENTIVE
                    PAYMENT ACT 2001

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 36 of 2001 — Education Service Incentive Payment Act 2001

Bill           : 41/2001

First Reading  : 25 September 2001

Second and Third Readings : 5 October 2001

Commencement   : 1 January 2002

2. 2002 Revised Edition — Education Service Incentive Payment Act
                                    (Chapter 87B)

Operation      : 31 July 2002

3. Act 5 of 2004 — Companies (Amendment) Act 2004
   (Amendments made by section 59 read with item (4) of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill           : 3/2004

First Reading  : 5 January 2004

Second and Third Readings : 6 February 2004

Commencement   : 1 April 2004 (section 59 read with
                     item (4) of the Schedule)

4. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
   (Amendments made by section 472 of the above Act)

Bill           : 32/2018

First Reading  : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement   : 30 July 2020 (section 472)

                                             31.12.2021
                             ii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
