THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
           NANYANG POLYTECHNIC ACT 1992

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
                                                                         2020 Ed.

Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992

Section                 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
     1.
     2.   Short title
     3.   Interpretation
     4.   Establishment of Nanyang Polytechnic
     5.   Common seal
     5A.  Objects and powers of Polytechnic
          Validation of collection of charge for late payment of fee or
     6.   charge
     7.   Board of Governors and Senate of Polytechnic
     8.   Schools of Polytechnic
     9.   Committees and delegation of powers
     9A.  Officers and academic staff
   10.    [Repealed]
   11.    Constitution of Polytechnic
   12.    Examinations
   13.    Power to confer diplomas, etc.
   14.    Grants-in-aid
   15.    Issue of shares, etc.
          Application of Societies Act 1966 to Students’ Union
          The Schedule — Constitution of Nanyang Polytechnic

An Act to establish the Nanyang Polytechnic, and for matters
  connected therewith.
                                                                 [1 April 1992]

Short title
 1. This Act is the Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “Board” means the Board of Governors of the Polytechnic;

                                                   1

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
2020 Ed.  Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992                             2

“Constitution” means the Constitution of the Polytechnic set out
   in the Schedule;

“Polytechnic” means the Nanyang Polytechnic established
   under section 3;

“Principal” means the Principal of the Polytechnic, and includes
   any individual acting in that capacity;

“Senate” means the Senate of the Polytechnic.

                                                                   [5/2018]

Establishment of Nanyang Polytechnic

 3. A Polytechnic called the Nanyang Polytechnic is established,
which is a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common
seal and is by that name capable of —

       (a) suing and being sued;

       (b) acquiring, owning, holding and developing or disposing of
            property, both movable and immovable; and

       (c) doing and suffering all other acts or things that bodies
            corporate may lawfully do or suffer.

Common seal

 4.—(1) The common seal of the Polytechnic must be kept in such
custody as the Board directs.

 (2) All deeds, documents and other instruments requiring the seal of
the Polytechnic must be sealed with the common seal of the
Polytechnic and the instruments to which the common seal is
affixed must be signed by the Principal or a Deputy Principal and by
another member of the Board.

 (3) All courts and persons acting judicially are to take judicial
notice of the common seal of the Polytechnic affixed to any document
and presume that it was duly affixed.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
3  Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992                             2020 Ed.

Objects and powers of Polytechnic

   5.—(1) The objects of the Polytechnic are —

   (a) to provide instruction and training in engineering,
        technology, health sciences, commerce and other
        subjects of learning;

   (b) to aid by research and other means the advancement of
        knowledge and its practical application; and

   (c) to promote the exchange of knowledge and skills with
       business and industry.

   (2) The Polytechnic may —

   (a) provide any facilities for its students that it considers
        desirable;

   (b) institute and make appointments to lectureships and other
        posts and offices and employ any other staff that the
        Polytechnic considers necessary;

   (c) fix, demand and receive fees and other charges, including
        charges for the late payment of any such fee or charge;

                                                                         [Act 4 of 2008 wef 01/04/2024]

   (d) provide technical and consultancy services to business and
        industry as it considers desirable;

   (e) form or participate in the formation of companies or other
       undertakings having such objects as the Board may
       approve;

   (f) solicit and receive donations and contributions from any
       source or raise funds by all lawful means;

   (g) give donations and contributions to any person or
        organisation; and

   (h) do all things that may be necessary, incidental or conducive
        to the attainment of all or any of its objects.

   (3) In subsection (2)(e), “company” —

   (a) has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the Companies
        Act 1967; and

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
2020 Ed.  Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992                             4

(b) includes a foreign company within the meaning of that Act.

                                                                                             [S 461/2020]

Validation of collection of charge for late payment of fee or
charge

 5A. Every amount collected before the date of commencement of
the Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2008 as, or
purportedly as, a charge for the late payment of any fee or charge
referred to in section 5(2)(c) shall be deemed to be and always to have
been validly collected, and no legal proceedings shall lie or be
instituted or maintained in any court of law on account of or in respect
of any such collection.

                                                                                 [Act 4 of 2008 wef 01/04/2024]

Board of Governors and Senate of Polytechnic

 6.—(1) The constitutions, functions, powers and duties of the
Board and the Senate are prescribed by this Act and the Constitution.

 (2) The Board is, subject to the provisions of this Act and the
Constitution, the supreme governing body of the Polytechnic and
must administer the property and manage the affairs of the
Polytechnic.

 (3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018 and the Constitution and to the financial
control of the Board, the Senate has the regulation of all matters
relating to education in the Polytechnic.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (4) No act or resolution of the Board or the Senate is invalid by
reason only of any vacancy in, or any defect in the qualification or
appointment of any member of, the Board or the Senate.

Schools of Polytechnic

 7.—(1) There are to be Schools of Engineering, Information
Technology, Business Management, Health Sciences and any other
Schools constituted by the Board on the recommendation of the
Senate.

 (2) There is to be a head of each School with the powers conferred
by the Board.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
5  Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992                             2020 Ed.

 (3) The Board may, on the recommendation of the Senate, form,
dissolve or reform any School and any department, centre, unit and
other subdivisions of any School as it may consider desirable.

Committees and delegation of powers

 8.—(1) The Board, the Senate and the Principal may establish any
committees that they think fit.

 (2) Unless otherwise expressly provided, any committee may
consist partly of persons who are not members of the Board or the
Senate or officers of the Polytechnic, as the case may be.

 (3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018 and the Constitution, the Board, the Senate
and the Principal may, with or without restrictions or conditions as
they think fit, delegate any of their powers and duties to any
committee.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Officers and academic staff

 9.—(1) The Principal, the Deputy Principals and the Registrar and
other officers of the Polytechnic must be appointed by the Board in
accordance with the Constitution.

 (2) The academic staff of the Polytechnic are the heads of the
Schools, lecturers and any other persons designated as members of
the academic staff by the Constitution and they are to be appointed by
the Board on the recommendation of the Principal.

 (3) The powers and duties of the officers and members of the
academic staff, the periods and conditions for and upon which they
hold office and their emoluments are as prescribed by this Act, the
Constitution and the terms of their respective appointments; but the
Board may assign to any officer, and in the case of any member of the
academic staff on the recommendation of the Principal, such further
powers and duties as the Board may think fit.

 9A. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
2020 Ed.  Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992                             6

Constitution of Polytechnic

 10.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Polytechnic is
governed by the provisions of the Constitution set out in
the Schedule.

 (2) The Minister may, after consulting the Board, amend the
Constitution by order in the Gazette.

 (3) Regulations made under the Constitution are not subsidiary
legislation.

Examinations

 11. All examinations held by the Polytechnic must be conducted in
the manner prescribed by the Constitution and any regulations made
under the Constitution.

Power to confer diplomas, etc.

 12. The Polytechnic has power —

       (a) to award diplomas and certificates and any other academic
            distinctions specified in regulations made under the
            Constitution; and

       (b) to provide such lectures and instruction for persons who
            are not registered students as the Polytechnic may
            determine, and to award diplomas, certificates and other
            academic distinctions to those persons.

Grants-in-aid

 13.—(1) The Minister must pay to the Polytechnic such moneys as
may be provided by Parliament as grants-in-aid to the Polytechnic.

 (2) All moneys paid to the Polytechnic under subsection (1) may be
applied or expended by the Polytechnic for the attainment of all or
any of the objects of the Polytechnic.

Issue of shares, etc.

 14. As a consequence of the vesting of any property, rights or
liabilities of the Government in the Polytechnic under this Act, or of
any capital injection or other investment by the Government in the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
7  Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992                             2020 Ed.

Polytechnic in accordance with any written law, the Polytechnic must
issue such shares or other securities to the Minister for Finance as that
Minister may direct.

                                                                             [13A

                                                                                                             [5/2002]

Application of Societies Act 1966 to Students’ Union

 15.—(1) Despite anything to the contrary in the Societies Act 1966,
the provisions of that Act apply to the Nanyang Polytechnic Students’
Union and its constituent bodies constituted by regulations made
under the Constitution.

 (2) The Minister charged with the responsibility for societies may,
by order in the Gazette, exempt the Nanyang Polytechnic Students’
Union and any of its constituent bodies from all or any of the
provisions of the Societies Act 1966 subject to any conditions
specified in the order.

                                                                               [19

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                              Sections 2 and 10(1)

                CONSTITUTION OF NANYANG POLYTECHNIC
                                           PART 1

                                      PRELIMINARY
Interpretation
 1.—(1) In this Constitution, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Act” means the Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992;
      “Board” means the Board of Governors of the Polytechnic;
      “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Board of Governors;
      “Constitution” means the Constitution of the Polytechnic;
      “lecturer” means a member of the academic staff of the Polytechnic;
      “Polytechnic” means the Nanyang Polytechnic;
      “Principal” means the Principal of the Polytechnic;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
2020 Ed.  Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992                             8

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

“registered student” means a student who is registered for a course or subject
   at the Polytechnic leading to the award of a diploma, certificate or other
   academic distinction of the Polytechnic;

“Registrar” means the Registrar of the Polytechnic;

“regulations” means regulations made under this Constitution;

“Schools” means the Schools of Engineering, Information Technology,
   Business Management, Health Sciences and such other schools as may be
   constituted by the Board on the recommendation of the Senate;

“Senate” means the Senate of the Polytechnic.

(2) In this Constitution —

(a) a reference to a specified section is a reference to that section of this
     Constitution;

(b) a reference to a specified subsection is a reference to that subsection of
     the section in which the reference occurs; and

(c) a reference to a specified paragraph is a reference to that paragraph of
    the subsection in which the reference occurs.

                                           PART 2

                            OFFICERS OF POLYTECHNIC

Appointment, powers and duties of Principal and Deputy Principals

 2.—(1) The Principal is appointed by the Board on such terms and conditions as
the Board may determine.

 (2) The appointment, removal, discipline and promotion of the Principal must be
in accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

 (3) The Principal is the chief executive and academic officer of the Polytechnic
and is responsible to the Board for —

        (a) the proper administration and the academic management of the
             Polytechnic in accordance with the policies determined by the Board;

        (b) the proper enforcement of regulations made under this Constitution;
             and

        (c) the welfare and discipline of the staff and students of the Polytechnic.

 (4) For the purpose of giving effect to subsection (3), the Principal has such
powers as are necessary or proper for that purpose.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
9  Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992                                    2020 Ed.

   THE SCHEDULE — continued

 (5) The Principal is entitled to be present and speak at any meeting of any
committee of the Polytechnic, but is not entitled to vote at the meeting unless the
Principal is a member of the committee.

 (6) There are to be one or more Deputy Principals who are appointed by the
Board on such terms and conditions as the Board may determine.

 (7) A Deputy Principal must perform such duties as may be assigned to him or
her by the Principal (or by the Board if the Principal is unable to so assign).

Registrar

 3.—(1) The Registrar is appointed by the Board upon such terms and conditions
as it may determine.

 (2) The Registrar must —

        (a) be the secretary of the Board;

        (b) attend all meetings of the Board unless excused by the Chairperson;

        (c) maintain proper records of the meetings; and

        (d) carry out such other duties as may be assigned to the Registrar by the
             Board.

 (3) In the Registrar’s absence, the Chairperson may appoint a suitable person to
act as secretary for a particular meeting.

 (4) The Registrar is not, unless the Registrar is a member of the Board appointed
to serve in that capacity, entitled to vote on any question before the Board.

Other officers and employees, etc.

 4. The Board may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018, appoint
and employ, on such terms and conditions as it may determine, such other officers,
employees, consultants and agents as may be necessary for the effective
performance of its functions.

                                           PART 3
                     BOARD OF GOVERNORS AND SENATE
Board of Governors
 5.—(1) The Board of Governors consists of the following members:
        (a) a Chairperson;
        (b) a Deputy Chairperson;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
2020 Ed.  Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992                             10

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

(c) the Principal;

(d) such other persons, not being less than 9 or more than 15, as the
     Minister may determine.

 (2) Every member of the Board, except the Principal, is appointed by the
Minister and, unless the Minister otherwise directs, holds office for a period of
3 years from the date of the appointment and is eligible for re‑appointment.

Powers of Board

 6.—(1) The Board must administer the affairs of the Polytechnic other than
those vested by the Act or this Constitution in some other authority of the
Polytechnic or in an officer.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Board, subject to the provisions of the
Act and this Constitution, has power —

        (a) to administer and manage the finances, accounts, investments,
             property, business, and all affairs of the Polytechnic, and for that
             purpose to appoint bankers, counsel, solicitors and such officers or
             agents as it may be expedient to appoint;

        (b) to invest the moneys of the Polytechnic in accordance with the
             standard investment power of statutory bodies as defined in
             section 33A of the Interpretation Act 1965;

        (c) to purchase, grant, sell, convey, assign, surrender, and yield up,
             exchange, partition, mortgage, demise, re‑assign, transfer, and accept
             leases of real and personal property on behalf of the Polytechnic;

        (d) to provide the buildings, premises, furniture, apparatus and other
             means needed for the Polytechnic;

        (e) to borrow money on behalf of the Polytechnic and for that purpose to
             mortgage all or any part of the property of the Polytechnic, whether
             real or personal, or give such other security, whether upon such real or
             personal property or otherwise, as it thinks fit;

         (f) to enter into, vary, carry out and cancel contracts on behalf of the
             Polytechnic;

        (g) to publish books and other matters on behalf of the Polytechnic;

        (h) in consultation with the Senate to review the instruction and teaching
             at the Polytechnic;

         (i) to cooperate with other polytechnics and authorities for the regulation
             and conduct of examinations, for the examination and inspection of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
11  Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992                                        2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

    schools and other academic institutions, for the extension of
    Polytechnic teaching and for other purposes;

    (j) to propose to the Minister additions to, or the amendment or repeal of
        any of the provisions of, this Constitution;

    (k) to prescribe fees and other charges, including charges for the late
        payment of any such fee or charge;

                                                                          [Act 4 of 2008 wef 01/04/2024]

    (l) to appoint officers, lecturers and other employees and to determine
        their duties and to fix their remuneration and the terms and conditions
        of their appointments;

    (m) to appoint committees within or outside Singapore to select candidates
         for any office to which the Board may appoint;

    (n) to delegate any of its powers to any members of the Board or to any
         committee of the Board or to any officer, lecturer or other employee of
         the Polytechnic; and

    (o) to do all such other acts and things as may be requisite to give effect to
         the powers conferred on the Board by the Act or this Constitution.

 (3) The Board may by regulations provide for any of the following matters or
purposes:

    (a) the administration of the affairs of the Polytechnic;

    (b) the appointment, promotion, conduct, disciplinary control, dismissal
         and termination of service of the officers, lecturers and other
         employees of the Polytechnic;

    (c) the welfare, discipline, suspension and expulsion of students;

    (d) the form of contracts;

    (e) the publications of the Polytechnic;

    (f) fees and other charges, including charges for the late payment of any
         such fee or charge;

                                                                          [Act 4 of 2008 wef 01/04/2024]

    (g) the prescribing of anything which is by the Act or this Constitution to
         be prescribed by regulations made by the Board;

    (h) generally all matters which by the Act or this Constitution the Board is
         empowered to regulate.

 (4) All such regulations come into operation on the day on which they are made
unless otherwise provided by the Board.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
2020 Ed.  Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992                             12

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

Vacation of office of member of Board

 7.—(1) The Minister may revoke the appointment of a member of the Board,
except that of the Principal, if the member becomes in the opinion of the Minister
unfit to continue in office or incapable of performing the member’s duties.

 (2) A member of the Board, except the Principal, may resign from his or her
appointment by giving written notice to the Minister.

Filling of vacancy in office of member of Board

 8. If the office of a member of the Board, other than that of the Principal, is
vacant, the Minister may appoint any person to fill the vacancy and the person
must be appointed for the remainder of the term of the person’s predecessor.

Meetings of Board

 9.—(1) The Chairperson must summon meetings of the Board as often as may
be required.

 (2) The quorum at every meeting of the Board is 6 members.

 (3) Every decision at a meeting of the Board is to be adopted by a simple
majority of the votes of the members present and voting except that, in the case of
an equality of votes, the Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the Deputy
Chairperson has a casting vote.

 (4) The Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the Deputy Chairperson presides at
a meeting of the Board.

 (5) In the absence of the Chairperson and the Deputy Chairperson at a meeting
of the Board, such member as the members present may elect presides at the
meeting.

 (6) The Board may grant leave of absence from a meeting of the Board to a
member of the Board.

 (7) The Board is not precluded from holding a meeting or acting in any matter
merely by reason of any vacancy in its membership.

 (8) Subject to the provisions of this Constitution and the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018, the Board may make standing orders to regulate its
own procedure.

Senate
 10.—(1) The Senate consists of —

        (a) the Principal, who is the chairperson;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
13  Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992                             2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

    (b) the heads of the Schools;

    (c) such number of officers of the Polytechnic to be appointed by the
        Board; and

    (d) such number of lecturers as may be determined by the Board to be
         elected by all the lecturers.

 (2) The Senate must meet at least twice in each semester of every academic year
and such other times as may be necessary.

 (3) The quorum at every meeting of the Senate is one‑quarter of the total number
of members of the Senate.

 (4) The chairperson of the Senate may require any officer, lecturer or other
employee of the Polytechnic to attend a meeting of the Senate.

 (5) The Registrar is the secretary to the Senate and is not, unless the Registrar is
appointed as a member of the Senate, entitled to vote on any question before the
Senate.

Powers of Senate

 11. Subject to the provisions of the Act and this Constitution and to the
availability of funds provided by the Board, the Senate has power —

        (a) to provide courses of study for the diplomas, certificates and other
             awards by the Polytechnic and any other courses of study that may be
             thought desirable;

        (b) to direct and regulate instruction and education in the Polytechnic;

        (c) to stimulate the advancement of knowledge by research and
             publications;

        (d) to direct the manner in which examinations may be conducted;

        (e) to determine what examinations and courses of study in other
             polytechnics or places of learning are deemed equivalent to
             examinations and courses of study in the Polytechnic;

         (f) to advise the Board on the provision of facilities for educational and
             other academic matters;

        (g) to decide in accordance with the Constitution and regulations persons
             who are qualified for the award of diplomas, certificates and other
             marks of distinction;

        (h) to organise the Schools;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
2020 Ed.  Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992                             14

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

          (i) to fix the time, mode, and conditions of competition for, and to award,
              fellowships, scholarships and other educational endowments and
              prizes in accordance with the terms thereof;

          (j) to require any student on academic grounds to terminate his or her
              studies at the Polytechnic;

(k) to provide lectures and courses of study for persons who are not
    registered students;

          (l) to advise the Board on any matter which may be referred to the Senate
              by the Board;

(m) to delegate any of its powers to any member of the Senate or any
     committee of the Senate or to any officer or lecturer of the Polytechnic;
     and

(n) to do all such other acts and things as may be requisite to give effect to
     the powers conferred on the Senate by the Act and this Constitution.

Regulations made by Senate

 12.—(1) The Senate may by regulations provide for any of the following matters
or purposes:

        (a) the admission and registration of students;

        (b) the conditions for the award of diplomas, certificates and other marks
             of distinction;

        (c) courses of study and examinations;

        (d) academic dress;

        (e) the award of scholarships and other educational endowments and
             prizes;

         (f) the conduct of examinations;

        (g) the prescribing of anything which is by the Act or this Constitution to
             be prescribed by regulations made by the Senate;

        (h) the prescribing of conditions under which persons may be exempted
             from the provisions of any regulations made by the Senate;

         (i) generally all matters which by the Act or this Constitution the Senate is
             empowered to regulate.

 (2) All such regulations must be reported to the Board and come into operation
not earlier than one semester after the day on which they are made, unless
otherwise approved by the Board.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
15            Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992                   2020 Ed.

              THE SCHEDULE — continued

              PART 4

              EXAMINATIONS

Examinations

 13.—(1) Examinations for diplomas, certificates and other awards must be
conducted in accordance with regulations made by the Senate.

 (2) The Registrar must discharge such duties in respect of examinations as may
be delegated to him or her by the Senate and the Registrar may perform these
duties by deputy.

                                           PART 5
                               FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
Financial year
 14. The financial year of the Polytechnic begins on 1 April of each year and ends
on 31 March of the succeeding year.

Preparation of estimates
 15. It is the duty of such officers of the Polytechnic as may be directed by the
Board to prepare for the consideration of the Board the estimates of income and
expenditure of the Polytechnic for each financial year.

Power of Board to accept gifts
 16.—(1) The Board may on behalf of the Polytechnic accept by way of grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, property and moneys in aid of the
finances of the Polytechnic on such conditions as it may determine.
 (2) Records must be kept of all donations to the Polytechnic including the names
of donors and any special conditions on which any donation may have been given.

Property donated for specific purposes to be separately accounted for
 17. All property, moneys or funds donated for any specific purpose must be
applied and administered in accordance with the purpose for which they may have
been donated and must be separately accounted for.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
2020 Ed.  Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992                             16

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

          PART 6

          STUDENT BODIES

Nanyang Polytechnic Students’ Union

 18.—(1) There is a students’ association called the Nanyang Polytechnic
Students’ Union which is constituted by regulations made by the Board and
consists of such constituent bodies as may be prescribed by those regulations.

 (2) The constitution, membership, functions and other matters relating to the
Nanyang Polytechnic Students’ Union and each of its constituent bodies must be
so prescribed.

 (3) The Polytechnic may impose and collect from the students or any class of
students such fees as it may determine for the benefit of the Nanyang Polytechnic
Students’ Union and its constituent bodies; and such fees may be applied in any
manner that the Polytechnic thinks fit for the purposes of the Union and its
constituent bodies.

                                                                                                 [45/2004; 5/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
                   LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
           NANYANG POLYTECHNIC ACT 1992

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 11 of 1992 — Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992

Bill           : 13/1992

First Reading  : 27 February 1992

Second and Third Readings : 20 March 1992

Commencement   : 1 April 1992

2. 1993 Revised Edition — Nanyang Polytechnic Act (Chapter 191A)

Operation      : 15 March 1993

3. Act 5 of 2002 — Statutory Corporations (Capital Contribution) Act 2002
   (Amendments made by section 3 read with item (22) of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill           : 7/2002

First Reading  : 3 May 2002

Second and Third Readings : 24 May 2002

Commencement   : 15 July 2002 (section 3 read with
                     item (22) of the Schedule)

4. Act 45 of 2004 — Trustees (Amendment) Act 2004
   (Amendments made by section 25(4) read with item (29) of the Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill           : 43/2004

First Reading  : 21 September 2004

Second and Third Readings : 19 October 2004

Commencement   : 15 December 2004 (section 25(4) read
                     with item (29) of the Schedule)

5. Act 16 of 2016 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2016
   (Amendments made by section 21 of the above Act)

Bill           : 15/2016

First Reading  : 14 April 2016

Second and Third Readings : 9 May 2016

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
                      ii

Commencement          : 10 June 2016 (section 21)

6. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
   (Amendments made by section 79 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2017

First Reading         : 6 November 2017

Second Reading        : 8 January 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 8 January 2018

Third Reading         : 8 January 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (section 79)

7. G.N. No. S 461/2020 — Variable Capital Companies (Consequential
                                   Amendments to Other Acts) Order 2020

Commencement          : 15 June 2020

8. 2020 Revised Edition — Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992

Operation             : 31 December 2021

9. Act 4 of 2008 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2008

Bill                  : 49/2007

First Reading         : 12 November 2007

Second and Third Readings : 22 January 2008

Commencement          : 1 April 2024

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
.                                 iii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
         COMPARATIVE TABLE
NANYANG POLYTECHNIC ACT 1992

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    1993 Ed.
14                         13A
—                          14 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
—                          15 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
—                          16 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
—                          17 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
—                          18 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
15                         19

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
