THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
         NEWSPAPER AND PRINTING PRESSES
                               ACT 1974

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                                                                 2020 Ed.

Newspaper and Printing Presses
              Act 1974

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2
                              PRINTING PRESSES

3. Licence to use printing press
4. Register of printing presses

                                     Documents

5. Printed document to bear name of printer and publisher
6. Printer to keep copy of document and to produce it to authorised

       person

                                        PART 3

                           NEWSPAPER COMPANIES

 7. Application and interpretation of this Part
 8. Publisher of newspaper to be newspaper company unless

         exempted from this Part
 9. Memorandum and articles to be approved
10. Special features of newspaper company
11. Control of substantial shareholdings in newspaper companies
12. Control of shareholdings and voting power in newspaper

         companies
13. Approval of applications
14. [Repealed]
15. Objection to existing control of newspaper company

                        1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Newspaper and Printing Presses

2020 Ed.  Act 1974                                                         2

Section   Power to make directions
   16.    Offences, penalties and defences
   17.    Power to obtain information
   18.    Funds from foreign source for the purposes of a newspaper other
   19.    than commercial purposes prohibited
          Appeal to President
   20.

                                        PART 4

                                   NEWSPAPERS

21. No newspaper to be published without permit
22. Permit required for sale and distribution in Singapore of

         newspapers printed or published in Malaysia
23. Permit required for sale and distribution in Singapore of offshore

         newspapers
24. Declared foreign newspapers
25. Prohibition on reproduction of declared foreign newspapers for

         sale or distribution
26. Examination of persons entering Singapore
27. Power to examine packages
28. Subscription of declared foreign newspapers
29. Registrar of Newspapers
30. Newspaper register
31. Right to inspect newspaper register
32. Copy of entry in register to be evidence

                                        PART 5

                                      GENERAL

33. Offences
34. Power to seize and detain illegal newspapers
35. Penalty
36. Jurisdiction of court
37. Consent for prosecution
38. Presumption
39. Persons to act for company or firm
40. Search for unlicensed printing presses
41. Search when requirements of this Act not complied with
42. Composition of offences
43. Payment of fees, etc.
44. Exemption

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
3             Newspaper and Printing Presses              2020 Ed.
                            Act 1974
Section
   45. Rules

An Act for the licensing of newspaper companies and for matters
  connected therewith.

                                                              [1 January 1975]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Newspaper and Printing Presses Act 1974.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “chief editor” includes the executive editor, the managing editor
         and any other person who controls the policy of a newspaper;

      “company” means a company incorporated or registered under
         the Companies Act 1967 or under any corresponding
         previous written law;

      “declared foreign newspaper” means any newspaper published
         outside Singapore which has been declared by the Minister
         under section 24(1) to be engaging in the domestic politics of
         Singapore;

      “document” means any printed newspaper or sheet of paper or
         other material and any printed pamphlet, leaflet, map, chart
         and plan, and includes any documents bound together;

      “journalist” includes an editor, a sub-editor, an editorial writer, a
         reporter and any other person whose business it is to edit or
         write for a newspaper;

      “newspaper” means any publication containing news,
         intelligence, reports of occurrences, or any remarks,
         observations or comments, in relation to such news,
         intelligence, reports of occurrences, or to any other matter

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Newspaper and Printing Presses

2020 Ed.  Act 1974                        4

          of public interest, printed in any language and published for
          sale or free distribution at regular intervals or otherwise, but
          does not include any publication published by or for the
          Government;

“newspaper company” means a public company limited by
   shares which has complied with section 10;

“newspaper register” means the books which are to be kept by
   the Registrar under section 30;

“officer of customs” has the meaning given by the Customs
   Act 1960;

“place”, in the phrases “place of business” and “place of
   residence”, means the street, square or other place and the
   number or other designation of the house;

“proprietor” includes the chief executive officer of a newspaper
   company;

“Registrar” means the Registrar of Newspapers and includes any
   Deputy or Assistant Registrar of Newspapers appointed by
   the Minister under section 29;

“senior officer of customs” has the meaning given by the
   Customs Act 1960.

                                                                                                             [4/2003]

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, expressions referring to printing
must be construed as including writing, lithography, photography and
other modes of representing or reproducing words or objects in a
visible form.

                                    PART 2
                           PRINTING PRESSES
Licence to use printing press
 3.—(1) The Minister may grant to any person in Singapore a
licence to keep and use a press for the printing of documents and may
at any time withdraw the licence either permanently or for a period.
 (2) A licence must be in the prescribed form.

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
   Newspaper and Printing Presses

5  Act 1974                                                  2020 Ed.

 (3) Any person to whom a licence is refused or whose licence is
withdrawn may appeal to the President whose decision is final.

 (4) A person must not keep for use or use any printing press without
a licence.

 (5) For the purposes of this section, the occupier of any premises on
which any printing press is found is deemed to have kept it for use
until the occupier proves the contrary.

 (6) Every licence granted under subsection (1) is ordinarily for one
year from the date of its issue.

 (7) The withdrawal of any licence is deemed to be sufficiently
communicated to the licensee if a notice of withdrawal is personally
served on the person in charge of the printing press.

Register of printing presses

 4. The Registrar must keep a register of printing presses, in which
he or she must enter any particulars prescribed relating to —

       (a) persons licensed under section 3 and to printing presses; or

       (b) any document or class of documents exempted under
            section 44 from all or any of the provisions of this Act.

                                  Documents

Printed document to bear name of printer and publisher

 5.—(1) Every document printed within Singapore must have
printed legibly on its first or last printed leaf the name of its printer
and publisher.

 (2) A person must not print, publish, distribute or assist in
distributing any document which does not comply with the
requirements of this section.

Printer to keep copy of document and to produce it to
authorised person

 6. Every person who prints any document must, during 6 months
from the date of the printing of the document —

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Newspaper and Printing Presses

2020 Ed.  Act 1974                                                  6

(a) keep one copy on which he or she must write or print the
     name and place of residence of the person by whom he or
     she is employed to print it; and

(b) produce the document to any person authorised by the
     Minister in that behalf if required to do so.

                                    PART 3

                       NEWSPAPER COMPANIES

Application and interpretation of this Part

 7.—(1) This Part applies to any newspaper published at intervals
not exceeding one week unless the newspaper has been exempted
from the provisions of this Part.

 (2) Sections 11 to 18 apply to, and in relation to, all individuals
whether resident in Singapore or not and whether citizens of
Singapore or not, and to all bodies corporate or unincorporate,
whether incorporated or carrying on business in Singapore or not.

 (3) In sections 11 to 18, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “arrangement” includes any formal or informal scheme,
         arrangement or understanding, and any trust whether
         express or implied;

      “share”, in relation to a newspaper company, means an ordinary
         share of the newspaper company;

      “substantial shareholder” has the meaning given by section 81 of
         the Companies Act 1967;

      “voting share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
         Companies Act 1967.

Publisher of newspaper to be newspaper company unless
exempted from this Part

 8.—(1) A newspaper to which this Part applies must not be
published in Singapore except by a newspaper company unless the
newspaper has been exempted from the provisions of this Part.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
   Newspaper and Printing Presses

7  Act 1974                                                  2020 Ed.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), a newspaper is deemed to be
published outside Singapore if its contents and editorial policy are
determined outside Singapore and its sales or distribution are not
intended primarily for Singapore.

Memorandum and articles to be approved

 9.—(1) Despite the provisions of the Companies Act 1967, the
memorandum or articles of association of a proposed newspaper
company must not be presented for registration unless there is lodged
with them the Registrar’s written approval.

 (2) The memorandum and articles of association of a newspaper
company must not be altered without the Registrar’s written
approval.

Special features of newspaper company

 10.—(1) Subject to subsection (15), in every newspaper
company —

       (a) all the directors must be citizens of Singapore;

       (b) there are to be 2 classes of shares, namely, management
            shares and ordinary shares; and

       (c) management shares must not be issued or transferred
            except to citizens of Singapore or corporations who or
            which have been granted the Minister’s written approval.

 (2) A newspaper company must not refuse to issue or to accept the
transfer of management shares to any person who has been granted
the Minister’s written approval to purchase or hold the shares except
for reasons to be given in writing acceptable to the Minister.

 (3) An appeal against any decision of the Minister under
subsection (2) lies to the President whose decision is final.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Newspaper and Printing Presses

2020 Ed.  Act 1974                                                  8

 (4) As soon as practicable after 1 January 1975, every newspaper
company must issue a number of management shares as is equal to
1% or more of its issued and paid-up capital; and where any
subsequent issue of shares is made by the newspaper company, 1% of
every such issue must consist of management shares.

 (5) Management shares issued under subsection (4) must be for
cash and in accordance with the terms specified in this section and —

(a) in the case of a newspaper company the shares of which are
     quoted on a stock exchange in Singapore or
     elsewhere — at a price that is equivalent to the market
     price of the ordinary shares prevailing at the date of the
     issue;

(b) in the case of a newspaper company the shares of which are
     not quoted on a stock exchange in Singapore or
     elsewhere — at a fair and reasonable value that the
     Minister may determine.

 (6) Upon the determination by the Minister under subsection (5)(b)
of a fair and reasonable value to be placed upon management shares, a
newspaper company is bound to issue the management shares as soon
as practicable at that determined value.

 (7) A person must not continue to hold management shares of a
newspaper company if the Minister’s approval given under
subsection (1)(c) or (15) has been revoked, and on such revocation —

(a) the person ceases to have any voting rights under those
     management shares; and

(b) the newspaper company must, as soon as practicable,
     arrange for the person to be issued with one ordinary share
     in exchange for each management share held by the
     person.

 (8) The directors of a newspaper company must, on the requisition
of the holders of at least one-quarter of its issued management shares,
immediately proceed to convene an extraordinary general meeting of
the company to be held as soon as practicable but in any case not later
than 2 months after the company receives the requisition.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
   Newspaper and Printing Presses

9  Act 1974                                                  2020 Ed.

 (9) Section 176 of the Companies Act 1967 (except subsections (1)
and (1A) thereof) has effect in relation to the requisition under
subsection (8).

                                                                                                           [35/2014]

 (10) The holders of both the management and the ordinary shares of
a newspaper company are to rank pari passu in respect of all
dividends declared by the company and in respect of all bonus and
rights issues made by the company as well as in the right to return of
capital and to participation in all surplus assets of the company in
liquidation.

 (11) A holder of management shares is entitled either on a poll or by
a show of hands to 200 votes for each management share held by the
holder on any resolution relating to the appointment or dismissal of a
director or any member of the staff of a newspaper company but has
in all other respects the same voting rights as the holder of ordinary
shares.

 (12) Voting on the appointment or dismissal of a director must be by
means of a poll and not by a show of hands.

 (13) A holder of management shares must not deal in or in any way
mortgage the shares except with the Minister’s approval.

 (14) Management shares must not —

   (a) be offered, before issue, to ordinary shareholders; or

       (b) be quoted or dealt in on a stock exchange in Singapore or
            elsewhere.

                                                                                                           [21/2005]

 (15) The Minister may in writing approve the purchase or
acquisition or the holding of management shares by any person
who is not a citizen of Singapore and for the appointment of any such
person as a director of a newspaper company.

 (16) This section has effect despite any other written law or
anything contained in the memorandum or articles of association of a
newspaper company.

 (17) In this section, “surplus assets” means all the assets of a
newspaper company remaining after the liabilities of the company
have been discharged and after the costs of the winding up have been

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Newspaper and Printing Presses

2020 Ed.  Act 1974                                                  10

paid or provided for, but before any capital has been paid to the
ordinary shareholders or any profits distributed to them.

Control of substantial shareholdings in newspaper companies

 11.—(1) A person must not, on or after 2 September 2002, become
a substantial shareholder of a newspaper company without first
obtaining the Minister’s approval.

 (2) Subject to section 13(4), a person who, immediately before
2 September 2002, is a substantial shareholder of a newspaper
company must not continue to be a substantial shareholder unless the
person has, within 6 months after that date or any longer period that
the Minister may allow, applied to the Minister for approval to
continue to be such a shareholder.

 (3) A person must not, on or after 2 September 2002, enter into any
agreement or arrangement, whether oral or in writing and whether
express or implied, to act together with any other person with respect
to the acquisition, holding or disposal of, or the exercise of rights in
relation to, their interests in voting shares of an aggregate of more
than 5% of the total votes attached to all voting shares in a newspaper
company without first obtaining the Minister’s approval.

                                                                                                           [21/2005]

 (4) Subject to section 13(4), any person who, at any time before
2 September 2002, has entered into an agreement or arrangement
mentioned in subsection (3) must not continue to be a party to that
agreement or arrangement unless the person has, within 6 months
after that date or any longer period that the Minister may allow,
applied to the Minister for approval to continue to be a party to that
agreement or arrangement.

 (5) For the purposes of this section, a person has an interest in any
share if —

       (a) the person is deemed to have an interest in that share under
            section 7 of the Companies Act 1967; or

       (b) the person otherwise has a legal or an equitable interest in
            that share except for such interest that is to be disregarded
            under section 7 of the Companies Act 1967.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Newspaper and Printing Presses

11  Act 1974                                                  2020 Ed.

Control of shareholdings and voting power in newspaper
companies

 12.—(1) A person must not, on or after 2 September 2002,
become —

    (a) a 12% controller; or

       (b) an indirect controller,

of a newspaper company without first obtaining the Minister’s
approval.

 (2) Subject to section 13(4), a person who, immediately before
2 September 2002, is —

    (a) a 12% controller; or

    (b) an indirect controller,

of a newspaper company must not continue to be such a controller
unless the person has, within 6 months after that date or any longer
period that the Minister may allow, applied to the Minister for
approval to continue to be such a controller.

 (3) In subsections (1)(a) and (2)(a), “12% controller” means a
person who alone or together with the person’s associates —

    (a) holds at least 12% of the shares in the newspaper company;
         or

      (b) is in a position to control voting power of at least 12% in
           the newspaper company.

(4) For the purposes of subsection (3) —

    (a) a person holds a share if —

    (i) the person is deemed to have an interest in that share
        under section 7(6) to (10) of the Companies
        Act 1967; or

    (ii) the person otherwise has a legal or an equitable
         interest in that share except for any interest that is to
         be disregarded under section 7(6) to (10) of the
         Companies Act 1967;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Newspaper and Printing Presses

2020 Ed.  Act 1974                                                     12

(b) a reference to the control of a percentage of the voting
     power in a newspaper company is a reference to the
     control, whether direct or indirect, of that percentage of the
     total number of votes that might be cast in a general
     meeting of the newspaper company; and

          (c) a person (A) is an associate of another person (B) if —

          (i) A is the spouse or a parent, step-parent or remoter
              lineal ancestor, or a son, stepson, daughter,
              stepdaughter or remoter issue, or a brother or
              sister, of B;

          (ii) A is a corporation whose directors are accustomed or
               under an obligation, whether formal or informal, to
               act in accordance with the directions, instructions or
               wishes of B, or where B is a corporation, of the
               directors of B;

          (iii) B is a corporation whose directors are accustomed or
                under an obligation, whether formal or informal, to
                act in accordance with the directions, instructions or
                wishes of A, or where A is a corporation, of the
                directors of A;

          (iv) A is a person who is accustomed or under an
               obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
               accordance with the directions, instructions or
               wishes of B;

          (v) B is a person who is accustomed or under an
               obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
               accordance with the directions, instructions or
               wishes of A;

          (vi) A is a related corporation of B;

          (vii) A is a corporation in which B, alone or together with
                other associates of B as described in
                sub-paragraphs (ii) to (vi), is in a position to
                control at least 20% of the voting power in A;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Newspaper and Printing Presses

13  Act 1974                                                  2020 Ed.

    (viii) B is a corporation in which A, alone or together with
           other associates of A as described in
           sub-paragraphs (ii) to (vi), is in a position to
           control at least 20% of the voting power in B; or

    (ix) A is a person with whom B has an agreement or
         arrangement, whether oral or in writing and whether
         express or implied, to act together with respect to the
         acquisition, holding or disposal of shares or other
         interests in, or with respect to the exercise of their
         voting power in relation to, the newspaper company.

 (5) In subsections (1)(b) and (2)(b), “indirect controller” means any
person, whether acting alone or together with any other person and
whether with or without holding shares or controlling voting power in
a newspaper company —

    (a) in accordance with whose directions, instructions or
         wishes the directors of the newspaper company are
         accustomed or under an obligation, whether formal or
         informal, to act; or

       (b) who is in a position to determine the policy of the
            newspaper company,

but does not include any person —

    (c) who is a director or other officer of the newspaper
        company;

    (d) who is a holder of any management share; or

    (e) in accordance with whose directions, instructions or
        wishes the directors of the newspaper company are
        accustomed to act by reason only that they act on advice
        given by the person in his or her professional capacity.

Approval of applications

 13.—(1) The Minister may approve an application made by any
person under section 11 or 12 if the Minister is satisfied that —

       (a) the person is a fit and proper person;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Newspaper and Printing Presses

2020 Ed.                       Act 1974                             14

(b) having regard to the person’s likely influence, the
     newspaper company will or will continue to conduct its
     business prudently and comply with the provisions of this
     Act; and

          (c) it is in the national interest to do so.

 (2) Any approval under this section may be granted to any person
subject to any conditions that the Minister may determine, including
but not limited to any condition —

(a) restricting the person’s disposal or further acquisition of
     shares or voting power in the newspaper company; or

(b) restricting the person’s exercise of voting power in the
     newspaper company.

 (3) Any condition imposed under subsection (2) has effect despite
any of the provisions of the Companies Act 1967 or anything
contained in the memorandum or articles of association of the
newspaper company.

 (4) Where the Minister does not approve an application made by
any person under section 11(2) or (4) or 12(2), the person must,
within the time that the Minister may specify, take any steps that are
necessary —

(a) in the case of section 11(2), to cease to be a substantial
     shareholder;

(b) in the case of section 11(4), to cease to be a party to the
     agreement or arrangement; or

          (c) in the case of section 12(2), to cease to be —

          (i) a 12% controller; or

          (ii) an indirect controller,

          as the case may be.

14. [Repealed by Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Newspaper and Printing Presses

15  Act 1974                                                  2020 Ed.

Objection to existing control of newspaper company

 15.—(1) The Minister may serve a written notice of objection on
any person mentioned in section 11 or 12 if the Minister is satisfied
that —

    (a) any condition of approval imposed on the person under
         section 13(2) has not been complied with;

    (b) the person ceases to be a fit and proper person;

    (c) having regard to the person’s likely influence, the
        newspaper company is no longer likely to conduct its
        business prudently or to comply with the provisions of this
        Act;

    (d) it is no longer in the national interest to allow the person to
         continue to be a party to the agreement or arrangement
         described in section 11(3) or (4), or to continue to be a
         substantial shareholder, a 12% controller or an indirect
         controller, as the case may be;

    (e) the person has provided false or misleading information or
        documents in connection with an application under
        section 11 or 12; or

    (f) the Minister would not have granted his or her approval
        under section 13 had the Minister been aware, at that time,
        of the circumstances relevant to the person’s application
        for such approval.

 (2) Before the service of a written notice of objection, the Minister
must, unless he or she decides that it is not practicable or desirable to
do so, cause to be given to the person concerned written notice of his
or her intention to serve the written notice of objection, specifying a
date by which the person may make written representations with
regard to the proposed written notice of objection.

 (3) Upon receipt of the written representations of any person
mentioned in subsection (2), the Minister must consider the written
representations for the purpose of determining whether to issue a
written notice of objection.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Newspaper and Printing Presses

2020 Ed.  Act 1974                                                  16

 (4) The Minister must, in any written notice of objection, specify a
reasonable period within which the person to be served the written
notice of objection must —

(a) take any steps that are necessary to ensure that the person
     ceases to be a party to the agreement or arrangement
     described in section 11(3) or (4), or ceases to be a
     substantial shareholder, a 12% controller or an indirect
     controller, as the case may be; or

(b) comply with any direction or restriction that the Minister
     may make under section 16.

 (5) Any person served with a written notice of objection under this
section must comply with the notice.

Power to make directions

 16.—(1) Without affecting section 17, if the Minister is satisfied
that any person has contravened section 11, 12, 13(4) or 15(5) or any
condition imposed under section 13(2), or if the Minister has served a
written notice of objection under section 15, the Minister may, by
written notice —

       (a) direct the transfer or disposal of all or any of the shares in
            the newspaper company held by the person or any of the
            person’s associates (called in this section the specified
            shares) within the time and subject to any conditions that
            the Minister considers appropriate;

       (b) restrict the transfer or disposal of the specified shares; or

       (c) make any other direction or restriction that the Minister
            considers appropriate.

 (2) Any person to whom a notice is given under subsection (1) must
comply with any direction or restriction that is specified in the notice.

 (3) In the case of any direction or restriction made under
subsection (1)(a) or (b), despite any of the provisions of the
Companies Act 1967 or anything contained in the memorandum or
articles of association of the newspaper company —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Newspaper and Printing Presses

17  Act 1974                                                  2020 Ed.

    (a) voting rights are not exercisable in respect of the specified
         shares unless the Minister expressly permits the rights to be
         exercised;

    (b) shares of the newspaper company must not be issued or
         offered (whether by way of rights, bonus or otherwise) in
         respect of the specified shares unless the Minister
         expressly permits the issue or offer; and

    (c) except in a liquidation of the newspaper company, payment
        must not be made by the newspaper company of any
        amount (whether by way of dividends or otherwise) in
        respect of the specified shares unless the Minister
        expressly authorises the payment,

until a transfer or disposal is effected in accordance with the direction
or until the restriction on a transfer or disposal is removed, as the case
may be.

 (4) In this section, “associate” has the meaning given by
section 12(4)(c).

Offences, penalties and defences

 17.—(1) Any person who contravenes section 11, 12(1)(a) or (2)(a)
or 13(4)(a), (b) or (c)(i) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 and, in the case
of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $5,000 for
every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (2) Any person who contravenes section 12(1)(b) or (2)(b),
13(4)(c)(ii), 15(5) or 16(2) or any condition imposed under
section 13(2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing
offence, to a further fine not exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of
a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (3) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 11 or 12, it is a defence for the person to
prove that —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Newspaper and Printing Presses

2020 Ed.  Act 1974                                                  18

(a) the person was not aware that the person had contravened
     section 11 or 12, as the case may be; and

(b) the person has, within 14 days of becoming aware that the
     person had contravened section 11 or 12 (as the case may
     be) notified the Minister of the contravention and, within
     any time that may be determined by the Minister, taken
     such actions in relation to the person’s shareholding or
     control of the voting power in the newspaper company as
     the Minister may direct.

 (4) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 12(1), it is also a defence for the person to
prove that, even though the person was aware of the contravention —

(a) the contravention occurred as a result of an increase in the
     shareholding as described in section 12(4)(a) of, or in the
     voting power controlled by, any of the person’s associates
     described in section 12(4)(c)(i);

(b) the person has no agreement or arrangement, whether oral
     or in writing and whether express or implied, with that
     associate with respect to the acquisition, holding or
     disposal of shares or other interests in, or under which
     they act together in exercising their voting power in
     relation to, the newspaper company; and

          (c) the person has, within 14 days of the date of the
              contravention, notified the Minister of the contravention
              and, within any time that may be determined by the
              Minister, taken such action in relation to the person’s
              shareholding or control of the voting power in the
              newspaper company as the Minister may direct.

 (5) Except as provided in subsections (3) and (4), it is not a defence
for a person charged with an offence in respect of a contravention of
section 11 or 12 to prove that the person did not intend to or did not
knowingly contravene section 11 or 12, as the case may be.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Newspaper and Printing Presses

19  Act 1974                                                  2020 Ed.

Power to obtain information

 18.—(1) The Registrar may, by written notice, direct any
newspaper company to obtain from any of its shareholders and to
transmit to the Registrar information —

    (a) as to whether that shareholder holds any share in the
         newspaper company as beneficial owner or as trustee; and

    (b) if the shareholder holds the share as trustee, to indicate, so
         far as the shareholder can, the person for whom the
         shareholder holds the share (either by name or by other
         particulars sufficient to enable that person to be identified)
         and the nature of that person’s interest,

and the newspaper company must comply with that direction within
any time that may be specified in the notice.

 (2) The Registrar may, by written notice, require any person (A)
who is a shareholder of a newspaper company, or who appears from
the information provided to the Registrar under subsection (1) or this
subsection to have an interest in any share in a newspaper company,
to inform the Registrar —

    (a) whether A holds that interest as beneficial owner or as
         trustee, and if A holds the interest as trustee, to indicate, so
         far as A can, the person (B) for whom A holds the interest
         (either by name or by other particulars sufficient to enable
         B to be identified) and the nature of B’s interest; or

    (b) whether any share or any voting right attached to the share
         is the subject of an agreement or arrangement described in
         section 11(3) or (4) or 12(4)(c)(ix), and if so, to give
         particulars of the agreement or arrangement and the parties
         to it,

and A must comply with that notice within any time that may be
specified in the notice.

 (3) Any person who —

    (a) fails to comply with a notice under this section; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Newspaper and Printing Presses

2020 Ed.  Act 1974                                                  20

(b) in purported compliance of the notice, knowingly or
     recklessly makes a statement which is false in a material
     particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of a day during which
the offence continues after conviction.

Funds from foreign source for the purposes of a newspaper
other than commercial purposes prohibited

 19.—(1) Subject to this section, a person must not, on or after the
grant or renewal of a permit under section 21, receive on behalf or for
the purposes of any newspaper to which this Part applies any funds
from a foreign source without the Minister’s prior approval.

 (2) The Minister may grant approval if the Minister is satisfied, on
any information that the Minister may require to be provided to him
or her, that the funds from a foreign source are intended for bona fide
commercial purposes.

 (3) Despite subsection (1), where any funds from a foreign source
are sent to a person without the person’s prior knowledge, consent or
solicitation and the funds are intended for or given by the donor for
the purposes of the newspaper, that person must, within 3 days of the
receipt of the funds, report the circumstances and particulars of the
receipt of the funds and the purposes for which the funds were
received to the Minister.

 (4) Where funds from a foreign source have been received by a
person for the purposes of the newspaper under subsection (3) and the
Minister refuses to approve the retention of those funds, the person
must, within the time that the Minister specifies —

       (a) return them to the sender of the funds; or

       (b) if the sender cannot be traced, the funds must be donated to
            any charity specified by the Minister.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Newspaper and Printing Presses

21                     Act 1974                               2020 Ed.

(5) In this section —

    “foreign source” includes —

    (a) the government of a country outside Singapore or the
         agent of any such government, whether resident in
         Singapore or otherwise;

    (b) any company, association or society incorporated or
         constituted under any law in force outside Singapore
         whether or not it has a branch office or place of
         business in Singapore;

    (c) any person who is not a citizen of Singapore whether
        or not the person is resident in Singapore;

    (d) any —

    (i) body corporate formed or incorporated in
        Singapore, one or more of whose members or
        directors are not citizens of Singapore, or in the
        case of a member being another company,
        where one or more of the members or directors
        of the company are not citizens of Singapore;
        or

    (ii) unincorporated association or body constituted
         under any law in force in Singapore, one or
         more of whose members or directors are not
         citizens of Singapore, or in the case of a
         member being another company, where one or
         more of the members or directors of the
         company are not citizens of Singapore,

    that the Minister may, by notification in the Gazette,
    declare to be a foreign source for the purposes of this
    section; or

    (e) any other source outside Singapore that the Minister
        may, by notification in the Gazette, declare to be a
        foreign source for the purposes of this section;

    “funds” means money, securities, movable or immovable
       property or other valuable consideration;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Newspaper and Printing Presses

2020 Ed.  Act 1974                                                  22

“funds from a foreign source” includes funds provided by a
   foreign source indirectly through any agent of the foreign
   source.

 (6) Nothing in this section applies to any dealing by any person in
the shares of a newspaper company quoted on a stock exchange in
Singapore.

 (7) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with
subsection (1), (3) or (4) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both and the
Court may, in addition to any other penalty that it may impose, order
the forfeiture to the Government of any funds which are the subject of
the charge.

 (8) Any journalist who, having received any funds from a foreign
source for printing or publishing any news item or article or for
adopting a particular line or bias in respect of any news item or
article, fails to report in writing within 7 days to the managing
director of the journalist’s newspaper company the receipt of those
funds shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
the penalty prescribed by section 35.

 (9) Any funds received from outside Singapore by a journalist are
presumed to be from a foreign source unless proved to the contrary.

Appeal to President

 20. Any person aggrieved by any refusal by the Minister to grant
approval under any section in this Part may appeal to the President
whose decision is final.

                                    PART 4

                               NEWSPAPERS

No newspaper to be published without permit
 21.—(1) A person must not print or publish or assist in the printing

or publishing of any newspaper in Singapore unless the chief editor or
the proprietor of the newspaper has previously obtained a permit

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Newspaper and Printing Presses

23  Act 1974                                                  2020 Ed.

granted by the Minister authorising the publication thereof, which
permit the Minister may grant, refuse or revoke, or grant subject to
conditions to be endorsed thereon.

 (2) A permit must not be granted to the chief editor or the proprietor
of any newspaper whose publication will constitute an offence under
section 8.

(3) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may —

    (a) direct that the newspaper must be printed in a language
         specified in the permit; and

    (b) before granting the permit require the applicant to execute
         a bond with or without sureties to secure the payment of
         any penalties which may be imposed upon the newspaper
         company, proprietor or editor of the newspaper under this
         Act or under any other written law.

 (4) Every permit unless sooner revoked is ordinarily for one year
from the date of its issue, and may be renewed for further periods not
exceeding 12 months in respect of each renewal.

 (5) Notice of the withdrawal of a permit to publish a newspaper
must be published in the Gazette.

 (6) The Minister may make rules prescribing the particulars to be
supplied by an applicant for a permit under this section.

 (7) A permit under this section is in addition to any licence granted
under section 3 in respect of the printing press at which any
newspaper is to be printed.

 (8) Any person dissatisfied with any decision of the Minister or
with any condition imposed by the Minister under this section may
appeal to the President whose decision is final.

 (9) Any person who contravenes this section or fails to comply with
any condition attached to the grant of a permit under this section shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to the penalty
prescribed by section 35.

 (10) This section does not apply to any offshore newspaper within
the meaning of section 23.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Newspaper and Printing Presses

2020 Ed.  Act 1974                                                  24

Permit required for sale and distribution in Singapore of
newspapers printed or published in Malaysia

 22.—(1) Any newspaper printed in Malaysia must not be
published, sold, offered for sale or distributed in Singapore unless
the proprietor of the newspaper or the proprietor’s agent has
previously obtained and there is in force a permit granted by the
Minister authorising the publication, sale or distribution of the
newspaper in Singapore, which permit the Minister may grant, refuse
or revoke, or grant subject to conditions to be endorsed thereon.

 (2) Nothing in this section affects the publication, sale, offer for
sale or distribution of any newspaper in respect of which a permit has
been granted under section 21.

 (3) Every permit has effect only in respect of the proprietor to
whom it was granted and unless sooner revoked is ordinarily for one
year from the date of its issue, and may be renewed for further periods
of 12 months.

 (4) It is a condition of the grant of any permit under this section that
any newspaper to which it refers must have printed legibly in the
English or Malay language on its first or last printed leaf —

(a) the name and address of its printer and its publisher;

(b) the place or places where it is printed and published; and

          (c) an address within Singapore for the service of legal process
              upon the printer and the publisher or of a person or persons
              authorised by the printer and the publisher to accept service
              on their behalf.

 (5) The Minister may impose as conditions of the grant of a permit
that the proprietor must —

(a) establish and maintain a place of business within
     Singapore;

(b) appoint persons within Singapore authorised to accept
     service of any notice or legal process on the proprietor’s
     behalf and on behalf of the printer or the publisher; and

          (c) provide the Registrar with the names and addresses of the
              persons so appointed.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Newspaper and Printing Presses

25  Act 1974                                                  2020 Ed.

 (6) Notice of the grant, refusal or revocation of a permit to sell and
distribute a newspaper must be published in the Gazette.

 (7) Any person dissatisfied with the Minister’s decision as to the
grant, refusal or revocation of a permit or with any condition imposed
by the Minister as a condition of the grant of a permit under this
section may appeal to the President whose decision is final.

Permit required for sale and distribution in Singapore of
offshore newspapers

 23.—(1) A person must not sell or distribute, or import for or
possess for sale or distribution any offshore newspaper in Singapore
unless there is in force a permit granted by the Minister to the
proprietor of the newspaper or the proprietor’s agent authorising the
sale or distribution of that newspaper in Singapore.

 (2) The Minister may grant the permit subject to conditions or may
refuse to grant or revoke the permit without giving any reason.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (2), the Minister may in imposing
conditions under that subsection —

       (a) specify that the maximum number of copies for each issue
            of the newspaper which may be sold or distributed in
            Singapore is to be determined from time to time by the
            Minister;

       (b) require the proprietor of the newspaper to appoint a person
            within Singapore authorised to accept service of any notice
            or legal process on the proprietor’s behalf and on behalf of
            the publisher and to provide the Registrar with the name
            and address of the person so appointed; and

       (c) require the proprietor of the newspaper to provide to the
            Registrar a deposit or some other form of security of any
            amount that the Minister may determine for the purpose of
            meeting any liability or costs arising out of any legal
            proceedings in connection with the publication of the
            newspaper.

 (4) Every permit has effect only in respect of the proprietor to
whom it was granted and unless sooner revoked is ordinarily for one

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Newspaper and Printing Presses

2020 Ed.               Act 1974                                     26

year from the date of its issue, and may be renewed for further periods
not exceeding 12 months in respect of each renewal.

 (5) Notice of the grant or revocation of a permit to sell or distribute
an offshore newspaper must be published in the Gazette.

 (6) In any proceedings under this section, it is presumed, until the
contrary is proved, that any person found in possession of more than
5 copies of the same issue of an offshore newspaper had possession of
them for sale or distribution.

(7) In this section —

(a) “offshore newspaper” means a newspaper published
     outside Singapore at intervals not exceeding one week
     which contains news, intelligence, reports of occurrences,
     or any remarks, observations or comments, relating to the
     politics and current affairs of any country in Southeast
     Asia, except where the circulation of every issue of the
     newspaper in Singapore is less than 300 copies;

(b) for the purposes of paragraph (a), a newspaper is published
     outside Singapore if, and only if, its contents and editorial
     policy are determined outside Singapore.

 (8) This section does not apply to any newspaper in respect of
which there is in force a permit granted under section 22 or to any
copy of a newspaper reproduced with the Minister’s approval under
section 25.

Declared foreign newspapers

 24.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, declare any
newspaper published outside Singapore to be a newspaper engaging
in the domestic politics of Singapore.

 (2) A person must not, without the Minister’s prior approval, sell or
distribute or import for or possess for sale or distribution any declared
foreign newspaper.

 (3) The Minister may grant approval under subsection (2) subject to
conditions or may refuse to grant or revoke such approval without
giving any reason.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Newspaper and Printing Presses

27  Act 1974                                                  2020 Ed.

 (4) The Minister may restrict the sale or distribution of each issue of
any declared foreign newspaper granted approval under
subsection (2) to the number of copies the Minister thinks fit, and
may require the copies to be marked in the manner that the Minister
may direct.

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) or fails to comply
with any of the conditions imposed under subsection (3) or who sells
or distributes any copy of a declared foreign newspaper which is not
marked in accordance with subsection (4) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (6) In any proceedings under this section, it is presumed, until the
contrary is proved, that any person found in possession of more than
5 copies of the same issue of a declared foreign newspaper had
possession of them for sale or distribution.

Prohibition on reproduction of declared foreign newspapers
for sale or distribution

 25.—(1) A person must not reproduce for sale or distribution in
Singapore any copy of a declared foreign newspaper without the
Minister’s prior approval.

 (2) The Minister may grant approval under subsection (1) subject to
conditions or may refuse to grant or revoke such approval without
giving any reason.

 (3) Any person who has been granted approval by the Minister
under subsection (2) to reproduce copies of a declared foreign
newspaper must not make any profit as a result of the sale or
distribution of copies of the declared foreign newspaper so
reproduced but is permitted to recover the cost of production and
services connected with the sale and distribution of those copies.

 (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (3), or fails to
comply with any of the conditions imposed under subsection (2),
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Newspaper and Printing Presses

2020 Ed.  Act 1974                                                  28

 (5) Copies of a declared foreign newspaper reproduced with the
Minister’s approval under subsection (2) do not constitute an
infringement of copyright.

Examination of persons entering Singapore

 26.—(1) Any person entering Singapore must, if the person is
required to do so by the Registrar or any authorised officer —

       (a) declare whether or not the person has with the person any
            declared foreign newspaper; and

       (b) produce such declared foreign newspaper for examination.

 (2) The Registrar or any authorised officer may examine or search
any person entering Singapore or any article which the person has
with the person for the purpose of ascertaining whether the person has
in the person’s possession any declared foreign newspaper and may
seize any such newspaper which is not marked in accordance with
section 24(4).

 (3) Any newspaper seized under subsection (2) may be detained for
so long as the Registrar or authorised officer considers necessary.

 (4) The Registrar or authorised officer may, if any newspaper
seized under subsection (2) is a declared foreign newspaper —

       (a) confiscate the newspaper; and

       (b) destroy it or cause it to be destroyed or permit it to be sent
            to a destination outside Singapore.

 (5) Any person who fails to comply with any requirement made by
the Registrar or authorised officer under subsection (1) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

 (6) In this section, “authorised officer” means any person
authorised by the Registrar or any police officer or officer of customs.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
               Newspaper and Printing Presses

29                           Act 1974                         2020 Ed.

Power to examine packages

27.—(1) Any —

    (a) officer of a postal licensee not below the rank of postal
         superintendent;

    (b) officer of customs;

    (c) police officer; and

    (d) other officer authorised in that behalf by the Minister,

may detain, open and examine any package or article which the
officer suspects to contain any declared foreign newspaper and if
such newspaper, which is not marked in accordance with
section 24(4), is found in the package or article, the whole package
or article may be impounded and retained by the officer who must
deliver it to the Registrar.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (2) The Registrar may destroy any declared foreign newspaper
delivered under subsection (1) or may dispose of the newspaper in
any manner directed by the Minister.

Subscription of declared foreign newspapers

 28.—(1) A person must not subscribe to any declared foreign
newspaper except through a distributor who is authorised by the
Minister.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

Registrar of Newspapers

 29.—(1) The Minister may appoint a Registrar of Newspapers, and
Deputy Registrars and Assistant Registrars of Newspapers, that the
Minister thinks necessary for the proper administration of this Act.

 (2) The Registrar is charged with the general administration of this
Act and the exercise of functions imposed on the Registrar by this
Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Newspaper and Printing Presses

2020 Ed.  Act 1974                                                  30

 (3) The Registrar may authorise or appoint any person to assist him
or her in the exercise of his or her functions and duties under this Act
whether generally or in any particular case.

 (4) The Registrar and any person authorised or appointed by the
Registrar under subsection (3) are deemed to be public servants for
the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

Newspaper register

 30. The Registrar must keep a newspaper register in books
consisting of copies of the applications for permits and of the
permits granted under section 21.

Right to inspect newspaper register

 31.—(1) Any person may search and inspect the newspaper register
during normal working hours on payment of a fee of $1 for every
search and inspection.

 (2) Any person may obtain a copy of any entry in the newspaper
register certified by the Registrar on payment of a fee of $2 for every
copy.

Copy of entry in register to be evidence

 32.—(1) Every such certified copy is to be received as conclusive
evidence of the contents of the entry of which it purports to be a copy.

 (2) Every such certified copy is to, in all proceedings, whether civil
or criminal, be accepted as sufficient evidence of all the matters and
things thereby appearing, until the contrary is proved.

                                    PART 5

                                  GENERAL

Offences

 33.—(1) Any person who publishes, sells, offers for sale or
distributes or abets the sale, offer for sale or distribution of any
newspaper the printing, publication, sale or distribution of which is
unlawful under any of the provisions of this Act shall be guilty of an

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Newspaper and Printing Presses

31  Act 1974                                                  2020 Ed.

offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

 (2) A person must not be convicted of any offence under
subsection (1) if the person proves that the newspaper in respect of
which the person is charged was published, sold, offered for sale or
distributed (as the case may be) without the person’s authority,
consent and knowledge and without any want of due care on the
person’s part.

 (3) Any person who, without lawful excuse, has in the person’s
possession, custody or control for the purpose of publication, sale or
distribution any newspaper the printing, publication, sale or
distribution of which is unlawful under any of the provisions of
this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to the penalty prescribed by section 35.

 (4) It is presumed until the contrary is proved that any person found
in possession, custody or control of any such newspaper had it for the
purpose of the publication, sale or distribution thereof.

 (5) Where any person is convicted of any offence under this section,
any newspaper to which the proceedings relate must be forfeited and
must be destroyed or otherwise disposed of as the court directs.

Power to seize and detain illegal newspapers

 34.—(1) Any —

       (a) officer of a postal licensee not below the rank of postal
            superintendent;

       (b) senior officer of customs; or

       (c) police officer not below the rank of Inspector,

may detain, open and examine any package or article which the
officer suspects to contain any newspaper which is being or has been
brought into Singapore for the purpose of publication, sale or
distribution in contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or of
any condition imposed in respect of any permit.

                                                                                                 [4/2003; 34/2007]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Newspaper and Printing Presses

2020 Ed.  Act 1974                                                  32

 (2) Any police officer or any officer of customs may seize and
detain any newspaper found in the possession of any person which the
police officer or the officer of customs has reasonable cause to
believe has been printed, published, sold or distributed or is intended
to be printed, published, sold or distributed in contravention of the
provisions of this Act or of any conditions imposed in respect of any
permit.

 (3) Any such newspaper which has been so printed, published, sold
or distributed must, whether or not any person has been convicted of
any offence in respect thereof —

(a) be forfeited by order of a court; and

(b) be destroyed or otherwise disposed of as the court directs.

 (4) A District Judge or a Magistrate may issue a warrant
empowering any police officer not below the rank of sergeant to
enter upon and search for any newspaper the printing, publication,
sale or distribution of which is unlawful under any of the provisions
of this Act in any premises where any such newspaper is known or
reasonably suspected to be.

 (5) Where it appears to any police officer not below the rank of
Inspector that there is reasonable cause to believe that in any premises
there is concealed or deposited any newspaper the printing,
publication, sale or distribution of which is unlawful under any of
the provisions of this Act and the officer has reasonable grounds for
believing that by reason of the delay which would be entailed by
obtaining a search warrant the object of the search is likely to be
frustrated, the officer may enter and search the premises as if the
officer were empowered to do so by a warrant.

Penalty

 35. Except as otherwise provided in this Act, any person who fails
to comply with any of the requirements of this Act shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction before a District Court or
a Magistrate’s Court to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Newspaper and Printing Presses

33                     Act 1974                               2020 Ed.

Jurisdiction of court

 36. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court and a Magistrate’s Court have
jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act and have power to
impose the full penalty or punishment in respect of any offence under
this Act.

Consent for prosecution

 37. No prosecution may be instituted under this Act without the
consent of the Public Prosecutor.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

Presumption

 38. For the purpose of any proceedings under this Act, a newspaper
is presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have been printed or
published at the place, if any, at which it is stated in any printing
thereon to have been printed or published, as the case may be.

Persons to act for company or firm

 39.—(1) For any of the purposes of this Act, a company may act by
a director or its secretary, and a firm may act by any of its members.

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

 (2) In this section, “company” includes a variable capital company
incorporated under the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018.

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

Search for unlicensed printing presses

 40. Any person authorised by the Minister in that behalf who has
reason to believe that any printing press is used or kept for use —

       (a) in any place without a licence granted under this Act; or

       (b) in any place not mentioned in that licence,

may, with such assistance and by such force as may be necessary by
night or day, enter into and search any such place and seize any
printing press and all the types, documents and other articles found
therein.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Newspaper and Printing Presses

2020 Ed.  Act 1974                                                  34

Search when requirements of this Act not complied with

 41. Any person authorised by the Minister in that behalf who has
reason to believe that any of the provisions of this Act is not being
complied with by a person who is in possession of a licensed printing
press may, with such assistance and by such force as may be
necessary by night or day, enter into and search any place where the
person believes the printing press to be kept and may seize any
documents which do not comply with the provisions of this Act.

Composition of offences

 42.—(1) The Minister or any officer authorised by the Minister
may compound any offence under this Act which is prescribed as a
compoundable offence by collecting from a person reasonably
suspected of having committed the offence —

       (a) a sum of money not exceeding $1,000 in the case of an
            offence punishable on conviction with a fine not exceeding
            $5,000 (whether with or without imprisonment); or

       (b) a sum of money not exceeding $5,000 in the case of an
            offence punishable on conviction with a fine exceeding
            $5,000 (whether with or without imprisonment).

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings may
be taken against the person in respect of the offence.

 (3) The Minister may make rules to prescribe the offences which
may be compounded and the method and procedure by which those
offences may be compounded under this section.

Payment of fees, etc.

 43.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), all fees and other moneys
collected under this Act must be paid to the Info-communications
Media Development Authority established by section 3 of the
Info-communications Media Development Authority Act 2016.

                                                                                                           [22/2016]

 (2) All sums collected under section 42 for the composition of an
offence under this Act must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [22/2016]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
           Newspaper and Printing Presses

35                Act 1974                                    2020 Ed.

Exemption

 44.—(1) The Minister may, subject to any conditions that he or she
may impose, by order in the Gazette —

    (a) exempt any class or description of shares or interests in
         shares from section 11 or 12 or both; or

    (b) exempt —

           (i) any person or class of persons;

           (ii) any document or class of documents; or

    (iii) any class or description of printing presses,

    from all or any of the provisions of this Act.

 (2) Nothing in this Act extends to the impression of any engraving
or to the printing of any visiting or business card, bill-head or letter
heading.

Rules
 45. The Minister may make rules —
       (a) for fixing the fees to be charged for permits and licences;
       (b) for prescribing the forms for permits and licences to be
            used under this Act; and
       (c) generally for carrying into effect the provisions of this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
              NEWSPAPER AND PRINTING PRESSES

                                   ACT 1974

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                  PART 1
                     PRINTING PRESSES ACT
           (CHAPTER 258, 1970 REVISED EDITION)

1. Ordinance 5 of 1920 — Printing Presses Ordinance, 1920

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1669/1919

First Reading         : 27 October 1919

Second Reading        : 19 December 1919

Notice of Amendments  : 19 January 1920

Third Reading         : 8 March 1920

Commencement          : 1 March 1920

Note: This Ordinance ceased the application of the Indian Act XI of 1835
        relating to printing presses to the Colony.

2. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 1 (Printing Presses)

Operation             : 1 August 1926

3. Ordinance 7 of 1930 — Printing Presses (Amendment) Ordinance, 1930

Bill                  : G.N. No. 894/1930

First Reading         : 12 May 1930

Second and Third Readings : 7 July 1930

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
               ii

Commencement   : 1 August 1930

4. 1936 Revised Edition — Printing Presses Ordinance (Chapter 208)

Operation      : 1 September 1936

5. Ordinance 38 of 1939 — Printing Presses (Amendment) Ordinance, 1939

Bill           : G.N. No. 2557/1939

First Reading  : 28 August 1939

Second and Third Readings : 16 October 1939

Commencement   : 1 November 1939

6. Ordinance 37 of 1952 — Law Revision (Penalties Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1952

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with item 69 of the Schedule to the
   above Ordinance)

Bill           : 32/1952

First Reading  : 16 September 1952

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 1952

Commencement   : 30 April 1955 (section 2 read with
                     item 69 of the Schedule)

7. 1955 Revised Edition — Printing Presses Ordinance (Chapter 226)

Operation      : 1 July 1956

8. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 67/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                         Laws (No. 2) Order, 1959

Commencement   : 21 August 1959

9. Ordinance 71 of 1959 — Transfer of Powers Ordinance, 1959
   (Amendments made by section 4 read with the First Schedule to the above
   Ordinance)

Bill           : 30/1959

First Reading  : 22 September 1959

Second and Third Readings : 11 November 1959

Commencement   : 20 November 1959 (section 4 read
                     with the First Schedule)

10. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 177/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modifications of
                                            Laws) (No. 3) Order, 1959

Commencement   : 20 November 1959

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                      iii

11. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 178/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 4) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

12. Ordinance 11 of 1960 — Printing Presses (Amendment) Ordinance, 1960

Bill                  : 53/1960

First Reading         : 29 December 1959

Second Reading        : 14 January 1960

Notice of Amendments  : 14 January 1960

Third Reading         : 14 January 1960

Commencement          : 5 February 1960

13. Act 48 of 1970 — Statute Law Revision Act, 1970
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the First Schedule to the above
     Act)

Bill                  : 36/1970

First Reading         : 2 September 1970

Second Reading        : 4 November 1970

Notice of Amendments  : 4 November 1970

Third Reading         : 4 November 1970

Commencement          : 11 December 1970 (section 2 read
                            with the First Schedule)

14. 1970 Revised Edition — Printing Presses Act (Chapter 258)

Operation             : 31 July 1971

15. Act 21 of 1973 — Statutes of the Republic of Singapore (Miscellaneous
                             Amendments) Act, 1973

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 16/1973

First Reading         : 7 March 1973

Second and Third Readings : 20 March 1973

Commencement          : 6 April 1973 (section 2 read with the
                            Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                         iv

                                            PART 2
               NEWSPAPER AND PRINTING PRESSES ACT 1974

                               (2020 REVISED EDITION)

16. Act 12 of 1974 — Newspaper and Printing Presses Act, 1974

Bill                     : 9/1974

First Reading            : 14 March 1974

Second Reading           : 27 March 1974

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 3 of 1974

Third Reading            : 28 August 1974

Commencement             : 1 January 1975

17. Act 6 of 1977 — Newspaper and Printing Presses (Amendment) Act, 1977

Bill                     : 6/1977

First Reading            : 27 May 1977

Second and Third Readings : 29 June 1977

Commencement             : 18 July 1977

18. Act 9 of 1981 — Newspaper and Printing Presses (Amendment) Act, 1981

Bill                     : 8/1981

First Reading            : 6 March 1981

Second and Third Readings : 26 March 1981

Commencement             : 24 April 1981

19. Act 22 of 1986 — Newspaper and Printing Presses (Amendment)
                             Act 1986

Bill                     : 13/1986

First Reading            : 5 May 1986

Second Reading           : 31 July 1986

Third Reading            : 1 August 1986

Commencement             : 1 September 1986

20. 1985 Revised Edition — Newspaper and Printing Presses Act
                                     (Chapter 206)

Operation                : 30 March 1987

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
               v

21. Act 4 of 1988 — Newspaper and Printing Presses (Amendment) Act 1988

Bill           : 1/1988

First Reading  : 11 January 1988

Second and Third Readings : 27 January 1988

Commencement   : 12 February 1988

22. Act 19 of 1990 — Newspaper and Printing Presses (Amendment)
                             Act 1990

Bill           : 18/1990

First Reading  : 18 July 1990

Second and Third Readings : 30 August 1990

Commencement   : 1 December 1990

23. 1991 Revised Edition — Newspaper and Printing Presses Act
                                     (Chapter 206)

Operation      : 1 March 1991

24. G.N. No. S 92/1997 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Rectification)
                                   Order 1997

Operation      : 1 March 1991

25. Act 20 of 2002 — Newspaper and Printing Presses (Amendment)
                             Act 2002

Bill           : 20/2002

First Reading  : 23 May 2002

Second and Third Readings : 8 July 2002

Commencement   : 2 September 2002

26. 2002 Revised Edition — Newspaper and Printing Presses Act
                                     (Chapter 206)

Operation      : 31 December 2002

27. Act 34 of 2002 — Media Development Authority of Singapore Act 2002
     (Amendments made by section 68(1) read with item (3) of the Second
     Schedule to the above Act)

Bill           : 37/2002

First Reading  : 1 October 2002

Second and Third Readings : 31 October 2002

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                vi

Commencement    : 1 January 2003 (section 68(1) read
                      with item (3) of the Second Schedule)

28. Act 4 of 2003 — Customs (Amendment) Act 2003
     (Amendments made by section 26 read with item (15) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill            : 6/2003

First Reading   : 10 March 2003

Second and Third Readings : 21 March 2003

Commencement    : 1 April 2003 (section 26 read with
                      item (15) of the Schedule)

29. Act 21 of 2005 — Companies (Amendment) Act 2005
     (Amendments made by section 58 read with item (9) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill            : 11/2005

First Reading   : 18 April 2005

Second and Third Readings : 16 May 2005

Commencement    : 30 January 2006 (section 58 read with
                      item (9) of the Schedule)

30. Act 34 of 2007 — Postal Services (Amendment) Act 2007
     (Amendments made by section 42 read with item (2) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill            : 22/2007

First Reading   : 21 May 2007

Second and Third Readings : 16 July 2007

Commencement    : 24 August 2007 (section 42 read with
                      item (2) of the Schedule)

31. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 67 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill            : 11/2010

First Reading   : 26 April 2010

Second Reading  : 18 May 2010

Third Reading   : 19 May 2010

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                      vii

Commencement          : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                            item 67 of the Sixth Schedule)

32. Act 35 of 2014 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) Act 2014
     (Amendments made by section 12 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 24/2014

First Reading         : 8 September 2014

Second and Third Readings : 7 October 2014

Commencement          : 1 July 2015 (section 12)

33. Act 22 of 2016 — Info-communications Media Development Authority
                             Act 2016

     (Amendments made by section 95 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 21/2016

First Reading         : 11 July 2016

Second and Third Readings : 16 August 2016

Commencement          : 1 October 2016 (section 95)

34. 2020 Revised Edition — Newspaper and Printing PressesAct 1974

Operation             : 31 December 2021

35. G.N. No. S 26/2022 — Variable Capital Companies (Consequential
                                   Amendments to Other Acts) Order 2022

Date of commencement  : 13 January 2022

36. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 24/2022

First Reading         : 12 September 2022

Second and Third Readings : 3 October 2022

Commencement          : 1 November 2022

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
.                                viii
G.N.
G.N. Sp.                 Abbreviations
L.A.
L.N.          (updated on 29 August 2022)
M.            Gazette Notification
              Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
Parl.         Legislative Assembly
S             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
S.I.          Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S (N.S.)      Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.S.G.G.      Malaysia)
S.S.G.G. (E)  Parliament
              Subsidiary Legislation
              Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
