THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                 TOWN COUNCILS ACT 1988

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                                                  2020 Ed.

         Town Councils Act 1988

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                               PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Declaration of Towns
     2.
     3.

                                        PART 2

                ESTABLISHMENT, INCORPORATION AND
                   CONSTITUTION OF TOWN COUNCILS

 4. Establishment of Town Council
 5. Incorporation
 6. Common seal
 7. Certain contracts and instruments not required to be under seal
 8. Composition of Town Council
 9. Chairperson and vice-chairpersons
10. Duties of chairperson and vice‑chairpersons
11. Chairperson to have casting vote
12. Resignation of chairperson and vice‑chairpersons

                                        PART 3

                GENERAL PROVISIONS AS TO MEMBERS
                               OF TOWN COUNCIL

13. Tenure of office of elected members
14. Tenure of office of appointed members
15. Conflict of interest and disclosure by members
16. Town Council staff, etc., to disclose conflict of interest
17. Allowances, etc., payable to members
18. Validity of acts of members
19. Notice about members and key officers of Town Council

                                                  1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                      2

          PART 4

          FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF TOWN COUNCIL

Section   Functions of Town Council
          Powers of Town Council
   20.    Secretary and other staff of Town Council
   21.    Duties of Town Council
   22.    Interaction between Town Council and statutory authorities
   23.    Direction to Town Councils for emergency-related measures
   24.    Power of Town Council to carry out certain works
   25.    Power of entry
   26.    By-laws for regulation of housing estates
   27.
   28.

                                       PART 4A

                           LIFT UPGRADING WORKS

29. Interpretation of this Part
30. Declaration of precincts
31. Lift upgrading works in a precinct
32. Power to carry out lift upgrading works and recover

         improvement contributions
33. Payment of improvement contribution
34. Recovery of improvement contribution from sale of flat
35. Application of proceeds of sale of flat
36. Recovery of payments due to Town Council
37. Power of Minister to make rules
38. Saving of other rights of Town Council

                                        PART 5

                    PROCEEDINGS OF TOWN COUNCIL

39. Standing orders
40. Meetings
41. Minutes
42. Acts of Town Council
43. Quorum
44. Validity of acts of Town Council
45. Committees
46. Delegation of powers

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
3        Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

         PART 6

         FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Section  Constitution of Town Council Fund
         Transfer of surpluses after Parliamentary election
   47.   Accounts and records
   48.   Annual accounts
   49.   Estimates
   50.   Audit
   51.   Conservancy and service charges
   52.   Power to borrow
   53.   Power of investment
   54.   Grants
   55.   Financial Rules
   56.
   57.

                                          PART 6A

                 INSPECTION AND OFFICIAL MANAGEMENT
                                 OF TOWN COUNCILS

   58. Compliance reviews
   59. Investigations
   60. Powers of inspectors in investigations
   61. Remedial action to rectify deficiencies
   62. Inspectors of Town Councils
   63. Offences
   64. Official management of Town Councils
   65. Official manager

                                           PART 7

                          MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

   66. Recovery of conservancy and service charges from sale of flat
   67. Deduction of arrears of charges from compensation and other

            moneys payable by Board
   68. Fines to be paid into Town Council Fund
   69. Demand for particulars
   70. Liability of owners of vehicles for parking offences
   71. Personal liability of members, etc., for certain offences
   72. Composition of offences
   73. Legal proceedings
   74. Protection from personal liability

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   4

Section   Board’s obligations under existing leases of flats
          Board’s liability for repairs, etc.
   75.    Handover notices of common property
   76.    Relationship between Board and Town Council
   77.    Public servants for purposes of Penal Code 1871
   78.    Town Council’s address for service
   79.    Service of documents and notices, etc.
   80.    Rules
   81.    Saving
   82.
   83.

An Act to provide for the incorporation of Town Councils to control,
  manage, maintain and improve the common property of housing
  estates of the Housing and Development Board, their constitution,
  functions and for matters incidental thereto.

                                                               [5 August 1988]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Town Councils Act 1988.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “appointed member”, in relation to a Town Council, means a
         person who has been appointed to be a member of the Town
         Council under section 8 or 9(8);

      “Board” means the Housing and Development Board
         established under the Housing and Development Act 1959;

      “chairperson”, in relation to a Town Council, means the
         chairperson of the Town Council and includes an acting
         chairperson of the Town Council;

      “charges” means the conservancy and service charges levied by
         a Town Council under section 53;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
5  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

   “commercial property” means any building or premises vested
      in or belonging to the Board (or part of such building or
      premises) which is permitted under the Planning Act 1998 to
      be used wholly or partly as —

           (a) a market, food centre, confectionery, bakery,
                restaurant or bar, or an eating house;

           (b) an office or a place of business and for conducting
                administrative work;

                                                                                                  [S 759/2022]

           (c) a shop or premises for the carrying on of any trade or
                business where the primary purpose is the sale of
                goods by retail or the provision of services;

                                          Examples

    A furniture shop, department store, supermarket, dispensary, medical clinic,
dental clinic, beauty salon, ticket agency, travel agency, laundry shop, dry
cleaner’s shop, pet shop, video games arcade, computer gaming centre, billiard
saloon, bowling alley, bank or multimedia kiosk, or an automated teller machine.

   (d) a place —

          (i) for the care or education, or care and education,
               of children below 7 years of age; or

         (ii) at which 5 or more school-going children who
               are 7 years of age or older but below 14 years of
               age are habitually received for the purposes of
               care and supervision before or after school
               hours;

   (e) premises —

          (i) for the reception, lodging and care of aged or
               disabled persons or persons suffering or
               convalescing from any sickness, injury or
               infirmity; or

         (ii) for any type of examination of the human body
               or of any matter derived from the human body
               for the purpose of providing information for the
               diagnosis, prevention or treatment of any

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   6

          disease or for the assessment of the health of
          any person;

                                          Examples

    A hospice, convalescent home or nursing home, or a dialysis centre, cancer
screening centre or medical health centre.

              (f) a kindergarten registered under section 23 of the
                  Education Act 1957 or an institution providing
                  education or instruction;

                                          Examples

     A tuition centre, language school, computer school, music school, dance
school, speech and drama school, child development centre or play school, or an
art school or acting school.

        (g) a sports club, community centre, community club,
             family service centre or residents’ committee centre,
             or premises for community-based activities, and
             includes an office of such a club, centre or
             committee; or

        (h) a police post, fire station or civil defence centre,

   but excludes any property specified or described by the
   Minister, by order in the Gazette, as not to be a commercial
   property for the purposes of this Act;

“common property”, in relation to any residential or commercial
   property in a housing estate of the Board, means so much of
   the land and all parts of any building of the Board as are not
   comprised in the flats in the building and, for any housing
   estate mentioned in section 77(4), in respect of which a
   handover notice issued under section 77 is in effect, and
   includes —

        (a) the columns, beams, supports, external walls, roofs
             and storage spaces, lobbies, corridors, stairs,
             stairways, fire escapes, entrances and exits;

        (b) firefighting and protection system;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
7  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

   (c) the central and appurtenant installations for services
       such as power, light, sanitation and water;

   (d) the escalators, lifts, water tanks, pumps, motors, fans,
        compressors, ducts and all other apparatus and
        installations existing for common use;

   (e) the common facilities in the housing estate built for
       the use or enjoyment of the residents;

   (f) all recreational or community facilities, and gardens;

   (g) all directional signs and signboards;

   (h) the land appurtenant to the building and all other
        parts of the land intended for the use or enjoyment of
        the residents; and

   (i) such other property as may be prescribed,

   but does not include —

   (j) bus terminals and interchanges;

   (k) drains, sewers and lightings maintained by the
       Government;

   (l) swimming pools and other sports complexes;

   (m) public roads and parking places; and

   (n) such other property as may be prescribed;

   “constituency” means an electoral division under the
      Parliamentary Elections Act 1954 and includes a group
      representation constituency;

   “elected member”, in relation to a Town Council, means a
      Member of Parliament for any constituency comprised within
      the Town for which the Town Council is established;

   “finance manager”, for a Town Council, means an individual
      (other than a member) who occupies a position in the Town
      Council and is primarily responsible to the Town Council
      for —

   (a) the supervision and administration of the accounting
        systems of the Town Council, including —

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   8

          (i) keeping proper accounts and records of the
              Town Council’s transactions and affairs;

          (ii) ensuring that all payments out of the Town
               Council’s moneys are correctly made and
               properly authorised; and

          (iii) ensuring that adequate control is maintained
                over the receipt, custody, investment,
                safekeeping and expenditure of moneys and
                other assets of, or in the custody or control of,
                the Town Council;

          (b) the preparation and revision of estimates of the
               revenue and expenditure of the Town Council under
               section 51;

          (c) ensuring that the financial statements of the Town
              Council comply with this Act; and

          (d) generally all financial matters relating to the Town
               Council;

“Financial Rules” means the rules made under section 57;

“flat” means a horizontal stratum of any building or part thereof,
   whether the stratum is on one or more levels or is partially or
   wholly below the surface of the ground, which is used or
   intended to be used as a complete and separate unit for the
   purpose of human habitation or business;

“general manager”, for a Town Council, means an individual
   (other than a member) who occupies a position in the Town
   Council having the general control and management of the
   administration of the Town Council, and includes any
   individual, by whatever name called, who exercises such
   general control and management;

“group representation constituency” means any electoral
   division declared to be a group representation constituency
   under the Parliamentary Elections Act 1954;

“housing estate” means any housing estate built on any land
   vested in or held in trust for the Board;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
9  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

   “inspector” means an inspector of Town Councils appointed
      under section 62;

   “key officer”, for a Town Council, means any of the following
      individuals, whether or not an employee of the Town
      Council:

   (a) the secretary to the Town Council;

   (b) the general manager of the Town Council, if there is
        one;

   (c) a finance manager of the Town Council (however
       designated);

   (d) an individual who is appointed a deputy to any officer
        in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) (however designated);

   (e) a chairperson of any committee of a Town Council
       where formed under section 45 for any of the
       following matters:

   (i) internal audit;

   (ii) finance;

   (iii) procurement of goods or services;

   (iv) publicity and public relations;

   (v) estate management;

   “lease” includes an agreement for a lease or tenancy and
      “leased” is to be construed accordingly;

   “managing agent”, for a Town Council, means a person (whether
      or not the person carries on any other business) who is
      engaged or appointed, for monetary or other reward, to
      exercise any power or perform any function or duty of the
      Town Council under this Act, such as (but not limited to) all
      of the following:

   (a) managing common property within the Town of the
        Town Council;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   10

          (b) controlling the use of common property by residents
               of the housing estates within the Town or other
               persons;

          (c) maintaining and repairing common property or
              engaging appropriately qualified tradespersons to
              do so;

          (d) arranging building inspections and reports;

          (e) keeping and maintaining documents and records
              relating to any function, duty or power of the Town
              Council;

          (f) undertaking the financial management of the Town
              Council’s funds and books of account;

          (g) paying disbursements and expenses incurred in
               connection with the person’s management of the
               Town Council;

          (h) arranging for insurance for the Town Council;

          (i) paying accounts in relation to the Town Council, such
              as accounts for water and electricity charges,

          but excludes the following individuals when performing any
          activity that is a function, duty or power of the Town Council
          under this Act:

          (j) a member of, the secretary to or other employee of
              the Town Council;

          (k) an employee or similar officer of a managing agent of
              the Town Council;

“member” means an elected member or an appointed member;

“owner”, in relation to any property sold by the Board, includes
   a person who has purchased a leasehold interest in the
   property and a purchaser under an agreement for a lease;

“residential property” means any building or other premises
   vested in or belonging to the Board or any part of the building
   or premises which is permitted to be used pursuant to the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
11  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

    Planning Act 1998 or any other written law wholly for the
    purpose of human habitation;

    “secretary” means any individual appointed by a Town Council
       under section 22 to be the secretary to the Town Council;

    “single Member constituency” means a constituency that is not a
       group representation constituency;

    “statutory authority” means a body or an office that is
       established or constituted by or under a public Act to
       perform or discharge a public function, but does not include
       the Board or any Town Council;

    “surplus”, for any fund established under section 47, means an
       excess of the assets over liabilities of the fund at the end of a
       financial year;

    “Town” means any area declared to be a Town under section 3;

    “Town Council”, in relation to a Town, means the Town Council
       established under section 4 for that Town;

    “Town Council Fund” means the Town Council Fund
       constituted under section 47;

    “vice-chairperson”, in relation to a Town Council, means a
       vice‑chairperson of the Town Council.

                                                                                    [47/2004; 17/2017; 34/2017]

 (2) This Act does not apply to any property of the Board that the
Minister may by order specify.

                                                                                                 [34/2017; 4/2021]

 (3) Any order made under subsection (2) may provide for this Act
not to apply either indefinitely or for a specified period and may
contain such incidental, consequential or supplementary provisions
as may appear to the Minister to be necessary or proper.

 (4) In this Act, a reference to the date on which any election results
for a constituency are declared is a reference to the date the results of
an election in that constituency are published in the Gazette under
section 33 or 51 of the Parliamentary Elections Act 1954.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

                                                                                 [Act 8 of 2023 wef 14/06/2024]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   12

 (5) In this Act, a person is in a position to exercise a significant
influence over or with respect to the management or operation of the
business of the managing agent or auditor of a Town Council if the
person —

(a) holds (whether in the person’s own right or on behalf of
     any other person) the position of director, partner or other
     executive position (however designated) in the business of
     the managing agent or auditor;

(b) is entitled to exercise, by voting or otherwise and whether
     exercisable alone or in association with others, and
     whether in the person’s own right or on behalf of any
     other person, any power to participate in any directorial,
     managerial or executive decision in the business of the
     managing agent or auditor; or

          (c) is a substantial shareholder (within the meaning of
              section 81 of the Companies Act 1967) of the managing
              agent or auditor, which is a company.

                                                                                                          [17/2017]

Declaration of Towns

 3.—(1) For the purposes of constituting a Town Council to control,
manage, maintain and improve the common property of residential
and commercial property in the housing estates of the Board in any
area, the Minister may by order published in the Gazette, declare to be
a Town by such name as the Minister may designate in the order an
area comprising —

       (a) a single constituency; or

       (b) any 2 or 3 constituencies where the Members of Parliament
            agree to their constituencies being declared to be a Town.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) An order under subsection (1) that declares a constituency to be,
or to be comprised in, a Town —

       (a) is not invalidated by reason only of a change in the
            boundaries of the constituency pursuant to section 8 or
            20A(1) of the Parliamentary Elections Act 1954; but

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
13  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

       (b) is to continue to be in force until the order is revoked after
            the first general election after the change in those
            boundaries.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (3) In the event of a general election following the dissolution of
Parliament, an order under subsection (1) declaring all Towns must be
made by the Minister —

    (a) on the 14th day after the last date the election results are
         declared for the respective constituencies; and

    (b) with effect from that day.

                                                             [17/2017]

 (4) An order under subsection (1) may be amended from time to
time, and may contain supplementary provisions (not inconsistent
with subsections (5), (6) and (7)) that may be desirable, necessary or
expedient in consequence of any change to the boundaries of the area
of a Town, such as but not limited to the following:

    (a) the dissolution of a Town Council;

    (b) the sale, transfer or disposition of any property or rights
         and liabilities of a Town Council for the affected area,
         including property, rights and liabilities that would not
         otherwise be capable of being transferred;

    (c) the apportionment or adjustment between Town Councils
        of property, income or expenditure, or rights and liabilities
        in connection with the affected area;

    (d) the continued operation of the by-laws made by a Town
         Council for the affected area and for the amendment or
         revocation by another Town Council of those by-laws,
         even if the by‑laws were not originally made by that other
         Town Council;

    (e) the imposing of a duty on a Town Council to provide
        another Town Council with all such documents and
        information and other assistance as the other Town
        Council may reasonably require for the purposes of, or
        in connection with, the assumption of responsibility by that
        other Town Council for the affected area;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   14

          (f) the change of name of any Town Council;

       (g) specifying for the purposes of subsection (5) the successor
            Town Council for a dissolved Town Council.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (5) Where an order under subsection (1) provides for an area
comprised within a Town (called in this section Town A) to constitute
part of another Town (called in this section Town B) —

(a) the Town Council for Town A (called in this section the
     transferring Town Council); or

(b) if the Town Council for Town A is dissolved, the successor
     Town Council to that Town Council,

continues to be liable, for a period specified in the order (being not
more than 90 days) or a shorter period agreed between the Town
Council for Town B (called in this section the receiving Town
Council) and the transferring Town Council or successor Town
Council for Town A (as the case may be), for the maintenance and
management of the common property of the residential and
commercial property in the housing estates of the Board within
that area as if the order had not been made.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (6) Upon the expiry of the period mentioned in subsection (5), the
receiving Town Council is liable for the maintenance and
management of that common property.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (7) Nothing in subsection (5) authorises the transferring Town
Council or successor Town Council for Town A (as the case may be)
to draw on —

(a) any surpluses of the Town Council which are required
     under section 48 to be transferred to its sinking funds; or

(b) any balance of those surpluses,

to maintain and manage the common property of the residential and
commercial property in the housing estates of the Board within the
relevant area.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
15  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

 (8) For the purposes of this Act, where any part of the common
property of any residential or commercial property is situated partly
in the Town of one Town Council and partly in the Town of another,
the Town Councils may agree that such part is treated as situated in
such one of the Towns as is specified in the agreement; and in default
of agreement the situation of such part must be determined by the
Minister whose decision is final.

                                    PART 2

            ESTABLISHMENT, INCORPORATION AND
               CONSTITUTION OF TOWN COUNCILS

Establishment of Town Council

 4. A Town Council is established by this section for every Town
unless the Town Council is dissolved under this Act.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

Incorporation

 5. ATown Council is a body corporate with perpetual succession by
the name “The Town Council” with the addition of the name of the
particular Town and may sue and be sued in the corporate name of
that Town Council.

Common seal

 6.—(1) A Town Council must have a common seal, and the fixing
of the seal must —

       (a) be authorised or ratified by resolution of the Town Council;
            and

       (b) be authenticated by the signatures of the chairperson or any
            vice‑chairperson and any member of the Town Council
            authorised by resolution of the Town Council generally or
            specially to act for that purpose.

 (2) Any document purporting to be a document duly executed
under the seal of a Town Council shall be received in evidence and is,
unless the contrary is proved, deemed to be a document so executed.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   16

Certain contracts and instruments not required to be under
seal

 7. Any contract or instrument which, if entered into or executed by
a person not being a body corporate, would not be required to be
under seal may be entered into or executed on behalf of a Town
Council by any person generally or specially authorised by the Town
Council for that purpose.

Composition of Town Council

8.—(1) A Town Council consists of —

(a) the elected member or members ex officio; and

(b) such other members appointed by the chairperson in
     accordance with subsections (2) and (3).

                                                                                                 [17/2017]

 (2) The chairperson must, within 30 days of assuming his or her
office, appoint the members under subsection (1)(b) on the
nomination of the elected members, each of whom (including the
chairperson) may nominate such number of members as they may
agree or, if they fail to agree, an equal number of members, of whom
at least two‑thirds must be residents of any housing estate of the
Board within the Town.

 (3) At least 6 individuals must be appointed under subsection (1)(b)
as appointed members of a Town Council, but the maximum number
that may be so appointed is the higher of the following:

(a) 10 for each Member of Parliament required to be returned
     at any parliamentary election for each constituency
     comprised in the Town of that Town Council;

(b) 30.

                                                                   [17/2017]

Chairperson and vice-chairpersons

 9.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), a chairperson of a Town Council
for a Town is —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
17  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

    (a) if the area of the Town comprises only one single Member
         constituency — the Member of Parliament for that
         constituency; and

       (b) if the area of the Town comprises a single group
            representation constituency, or 2 or 3 constituencies —
            whoever is chosen by the elected members of the Town
            Council from among themselves to be the chairperson.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) Unless otherwise provided in subsection (4), the chairperson of
a Town Council for a Town (as determined under subsection (1))
assumes that office as follows:

    (a) for a Town declared after a general election — on the day
         that the order made under section 3(1) in the circumstances
         in section 3(3) takes effect;

    (b) for a Town comprising one or more constituencies in which
         a by-election is held —

    (i) if the Town comprises only one single Member
        constituency — on the day after the day the
        candidate is declared returned as the Member of
        Parliament for that constituency under
        section 49(7E)(a) or 49A(5) of the Parliamentary
        Elections Act 1954, whichever happens; or

    (ii) if the Town comprises a single group representation
         constituency, or 2 or 3 constituencies — on the
         14th day after the last date the election results are
         declared for the constituency or constituencies in
         which the by‑election is held;

       (c) for any other case — on the date the Town for the Town
            Council is declared under section 3.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (3) If the choice required by subsection (1)(b) is not made by the
elected members of a Town Council on or before the applicable date
mentioned in subsection (2), the Minister must appoint the
chairperson for that Town Council from among its elected members.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   18

 (4) The chairperson so appointed under subsection (3) assumes
office on the day immediately after the applicable date mentioned in
subsection (2), and holds office for such term as the Minister may
determine.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (5) The chairperson must appoint from among the members not
more than 2 vice‑chairpersons for such term, not exceeding 2 years,
as the chairperson may determine.

 (6) The chairperson or a vice‑chairperson, if he or she is an elected
member, holds office as chairperson or vice‑chairperson (as the case
may be) only so long as he or she is an elected member and is eligible
for re‑appointment.

 (7) Where all the elected members of a Town Council have vacated
their seats in Parliament by reason of a dissolution of Parliament or
otherwise, the appointed members must, with the approval of the
Minister, forthwith appoint one of their number to act as chairperson
for such term as they may determine; and where such members fail to
do so, the Minister must appoint any appointed member to act as
chairperson for such term as the Minister may determine.

 (8) Any chairperson appointed under subsection (7) may, with the
approval of the Minister, appoint at least 6 and not more than
30 members, of whom at least two‑thirds must be residents of any
housing estate of the Board within the Town.

(9) The appointment of any chairperson under subsection (7) —

(a) terminates upon the assumption of office of the elected
     member or members of the Town Council for the Town
     after the general election; or

       (b) may be revoked by the Minister if the Minister is satisfied
            that it is desirable in the public interest to do so and
            thereupon another chairperson must be appointed in the
            same manner prescribed in subsection (7).

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (10) To avoid doubt, an individual’s appointment as an appointed
member is not affected by reason only of the revocation —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
19  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

    (a) by the Minister under subsection (9)(b) of the individual’s
         appointment to act as chairperson; or

       (b) by the chairperson under subsection (11) of the individual’s
            appointment to act as vice‑chairperson.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (11) The chairperson may at any time revoke the appointment of
any vice‑chairperson without assigning any reason.

 (12) The chairperson and any vice‑chairperson of a Town Council
must, as soon as practicable after their assumption of office, complete
a declaration of acceptance of such office in the form prescribed by
rules under section 82 and deliver the declaration to the Minister.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (13) Any failure to comply with subsection (12) by the chairperson
or vice‑chairperson does not invalidate his or her term of office.

Duties of chairperson and vice‑chairpersons

 10.—(1) The chairperson presides at meetings of the Town Council
and performs such other duties as are prescribed in this Act.

 (2) In the chairperson’s absence, or if at any time the office of the
chairperson is vacant, any vice‑chairperson is to preside at meetings
of the Town Council and perform such other duties of the chairperson
as are prescribed in this Act.

 (3) If the chairperson and vice‑chairpersons are absent from a
meeting of the Town Council, the members present must elect from
among themselves a temporary chairperson to preside at that meeting.

Chairperson to have casting vote

 11. At any meeting of a Town Council, the chairperson or the
person presiding has an original vote and also, if the votes are equal, a
casting vote.

Resignation of chairperson and vice‑chairpersons

 12.—(1) The chairperson must not resign or vacate his or her office
and any purported resignation or vacation of office in breach of this
section is deemed to be invalid.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   20

 (2) Where a Town Council has more than one elected member, the
chairperson may resign his or her office if another elected member is
appointed in the chairperson’s place by the elected members.

 (3) Subject to subsection (2), the chairperson may resign his or her
office by giving written notice under the hand of the chairperson to
the Minister.

 (4) A vice‑chairperson may resign his or her office by giving
written notice under the hand of the vice‑chairperson to the
chairperson.

 (5) Where the chairperson or a vice‑chairperson dies or the office of
chairperson or vice‑chairperson is otherwise vacated, another
chairperson or vice‑chairperson (as the case may be) must be
appointed within 7 days after the death or vacation of office and
section 9 applies, with the necessary modifications, to such
appointment.

 (6) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to any chairperson
appointed under section 9(7).

                                    PART 3

            GENERAL PROVISIONS AS TO MEMBERS
                           OF TOWN COUNCIL

Tenure of office of elected members

 13.—(1) Subject to this section, a Member of Parliament assumes
office as an elected member of a Town Council —

       (a) for a Town declared after a general election — on the day
            that the order made under section 3(1) in the circumstances
            in section 3(3) takes effect;

       (b) for a Town comprising any constituency in which a
            by‑election is held — on the day after the day the Member
            of Parliament is declared returned at the by‑election as the
            Member of Parliament for that constituency under
            section 49(7E)(a) or 49A(5) of the Parliamentary
            Elections Act 1954, whichever happens; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
21  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

       (c) for a Town in any other case — on the day the Town is
            declared under section 3.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) An elected member of a Town Council vacates office as an
elected member of a Town Council only when he or she ceases to be a
Member of Parliament for the constituency comprised within the
Town for which the Town Council is established.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (3) Subject to subsection (2), an elected member of a Town Council
cannot resign his or her office as an elected member, and any
purported resignation as an elected member of a Town Council is of
no effect.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (4) Every elected member of a Town Council who is not a
chairperson or vice‑chairperson of the Town Council must, as soon as
practicable after assuming office as an elected member, complete a
declaration of acceptance of that office in the form prescribed by rules
under section 82 and deliver the declaration to the Minister.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

Tenure of office of appointed members

 14.—(1) Subject to subsections (2), (4), (5), (6) and (8), an
appointed member holds office for a term of 2 years and on such
conditions as the chairperson may determine and is eligible for
re‑appointment.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) Every appointed member of a Town Council ceases to be a
member upon the assumption of office of the chairperson of the Town
Council under section 9(2) or (4), unless the member earlier resigns
or vacates his or her office in accordance with this Act.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (3) The chairperson may appoint any person to be a temporary
appointed member of a Town Council during the temporary
incapacity from illness or otherwise, or during the temporary
absence from Singapore, of any appointed member.

 (4) The chairperson may, at any time, revoke the appointment of
any appointed member without assigning any reason.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   22

 (5) Any appointed member may resign from his or her appointment
at any time by giving written notice to the chairperson.

 (6) The office of an appointed member must be vacated if the
appointed member —

(a) has been absent, without leave of the chairperson, from
     3 consecutive meetings of the Town Council;

(b) where the appointed member was a resident of any housing
     estate within the Town, ceases to be so resident; or

          (c) becomes in any manner disqualified for membership of the
              Town Council.

 (7) If an appointed member resigns, dies or has his or her
appointment revoked or otherwise vacates his or her office before
the expiry of the term for which he or she has been appointed, the
chairperson may appoint a person to fill the vacancy for the residue of
the term for which the vacating member was appointed.

 (8) A person must not be appointed or continue to hold office as an
appointed member of a Town Council if he or she —

(a) is not a citizen of Singapore;

(b) is appointed under section 52(1) as the auditor of the Town
     Council;

          (c) is or becomes the managing agent of the Town Council;

(d) is in a position to exercise a significant influence over or
     with respect to the management or operation of the
     business of the managing agent or appointed auditor of
     the Town Council;

          (e) is an undischarged bankrupt or has made any arrangement
              with his or her creditors; or

        (f) has been sentenced to imprisonment for a term of at least
            one year or to a fine of at least $2,000 and has not received
            a free pardon.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (9) The disqualification of a person under subsection (8)(f) may be
removed by the President and ceases, if not so removed, at the end of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
23  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

5 years beginning from the date on which the person was released
from custody or the date on which the fine was imposed on the
person.

 (10) Every appointed member of a Town Council must, as soon as
practicable after being so appointed under subsection (1) or (3),
complete a declaration of acceptance of that office in the form
prescribed by rules under section 82 and deliver the declaration to the
Minister.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

Conflict of interest and disclosure by members

 15.—(1) As soon as practicable after a member of a Town Council
becomes aware of a conflict of interest in a question that has arisen or
is about to arise before the Town Council, the member must disclose
in writing the fact, nature, character and extent of the personal or
financial interest that gives rise to the conflict —

       (a) in the case of the chairperson, to the secretary and all other
            members of the Town Council; or

       (b) in the case of any other member of the Town Council, to
            the secretary and —

               (i) to the chairperson;

              (ii) if the chairperson also has a conflict of interest — to
                   a vice‑chairperson; or

             (iii) if both the chairperson and vice‑chairperson also
                   have a conflict of interest — to all other members of
                   the Town Council.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) The secretary to a Town Council must ensure that every
disclosure under subsection (1) in relation to any question —

       (a) is recorded in a register of interests kept and maintained in
            the prescribed form; and

       (b) is brought to the attention of the member presiding at a
            meeting of the Town Council at which that question arises
            or is to arise.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   24

(3) A member of a Town Council —

(a) may be present at a meeting of the Town Council while a
     question in which the member has a conflict of interest is
     under consideration and may be treated as being present at
     a meeting for the purposes of determining quorum; but

       (b) must not participate in any decision on the question.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (4) For the purposes of this section, a member of a Town Council
has a conflict of interest in a question arising for decision by the Town
Council if the member, or an associate of the member, has a personal
or financial interest in how the question is decided.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (5) However, subsection (4) does not apply merely because of an
interest that is —

(a) an interest in a question about the level of allowances or
     expenses to be set for members;

(b) an interest that the member, or an associate of the member,
     shares in common with the general public or a substantial
     section of the public;

          (c) an interest of the member or an associate of the member —

          (i) in an appointment or a nomination for an
              appointment to a body with predominantly
              charitable objects; or

          (ii) in any payment or reimbursement of membership
               fees, or expenses related to membership, in a body
               mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i);

(d) an interest of the member, or an associate of the member,
     that is prescribed; or

       (e) an interest so remote or insignificant that it could not
            reasonably be regarded as likely to influence a decision.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (6) In this section and section 16, a person is an associate of another
if —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
25  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

    (a) they are spouses or siblings or a parent and child or they are
         in a similar close family relationship;

    (b) they are in partnership;

    (c) one is a company and the other is a director or manager of
        the company;

    (d) one is a private company within the meaning of the
         Companies Act 1967 and the other is a shareholder in the
         company; or

       (e) a chain of relationships can be traced between them under
            one or more of the above paragraphs.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (7) The secretary to a Town Council who, without reasonable
excuse —

    (a) fails to keep and maintain a register of interests in the
         prescribed form; or

    (b) fails to comply with subsection (2),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (8) To avoid doubt, this section is in addition to, and not in
derogation of, the operation of any rule of law restricting a member of
a Town Council from having any interest in contracts with the Town
Council or from holding offices or possessing interests in conflict
with his or her duties as such a member.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

Town Council staff, etc., to disclose conflict of interest

 16.—(1) This section applies —

       (a) to the secretary to a Town Council;

       (b) to an employee, a staff or the managing agent of a Town
            Council who has been delegated a power, function or duty
            of the Town Council under this Act; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   26

       (c) to a member of a committee of a Town Council who has
            been delegated a power, function or duty of the Town
            Council under this Act.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) As soon as practicable after a person mentioned in
subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c) becomes aware of a conflict of interest
that has arisen or is about to arise in a matter in which the person is
conferred a power, function or duty relating to the Town Council by
or under this Act, the person —

(a) must not exercise or further exercise that power, or perform
     or further perform that function or duty, without the
     approval of the Town Council; and

(b) must disclose the fact, nature, character and extent of the
     personal or financial interest that gives rise to the conflict
     as follows:

          (i) in the case of the secretary to or a member of a
              committee of a Town Council, or the managing agent
              of the Town Council — disclose to the chairperson of
              the Town Council in writing as soon as the secretary,
              member of a committee or managing agent (as the
              case may be) becomes aware of the conflict of
              interest, and to the Town Council not later than at the
              next meeting of the Town Council;

              (ii) in the case of an employee or a staff of a Town
                   Council — disclose to the secretary to the Town
                   Council in writing as soon as the employee or staff
                   becomes aware of the conflict of interest.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (1) has a conflict of interest in
a matter in which the person is conferred a power, function or duty
relating to the Town Council if the person, or an associate of the
person, has a personal or financial interest in how the power, function
or duty is to be exercised or performed in relation to that matter.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (4) This section is in addition to, and not in derogation of, the
operation of any rule of law restricting a person mentioned in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
27  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

subsection (1) from having any interest in contracts with a Town
Council or from holding offices or possessing interests in conflict
with his or her powers, functions or duties as such a secretary to, or an
employee or a staff or a managing agent of, a Town Council or a
member of a committee of a Town Council.

                                                                             [15A

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

Allowances, etc., payable to members

 17.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the chairperson,
vice‑chairpersons and other members of a Town Council may be
paid, out of the Town Council Fund, such allowances as may be
prescribed.

 (2) Any full-time chairperson, vice‑chairpersons and other
members of a Town Council may be paid, out of the Town Council
Fund, such salaries as may be prescribed.

                                                                               [16

Validity of acts of members

 18. The acts and proceedings of any member of a Town Council
acting as such are, despite his or her want of qualification or
disqualification, as valid and effectual as if he or she had been
qualified.

                                                                               [17

Notice about members and key officers of Town Council
 19.—(1) Within 30 days after an individual —
       (a) assumes any of the following offices in a Town Council:
               (i) the chairperson;
              (ii) a vice‑chairperson;
             (iii) an elected member;
             (iv) an appointed member; or
       (b) is appointed as a key officer of a Town Council,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   28

the Town Council must give to the Minister a notice specifying the
name and other prescribed particulars of the individual.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) Within 30 days after an individual —

(a) ceases to hold any of the following offices in a Town
     Council, other than because of the operation of
     section 9(9), 13(2) or 14(2):

          (i) the chairperson;

          (ii) a vice‑chairperson;

          (iii) an elected member;

          (iv) an appointed member; or

(b) ceases to be a key officer of a Town Council,

the Town Council must give to the Minister a notice specifying the
name of the individual and other prescribed particulars about the
cessation.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (3) Within 30 days after an individual —

(a) assumes any office mentioned in subsection (1)(a); or

(b) is appointed as —

          (i) the secretary to the Town Council;

          (ii) the general manager of the Town Council;

          (iii) a finance manager of a Town Council; or

          (iv) a deputy of any officer in sub‑paragraph (i), (ii) or
               (iii),

the Town Council must exhibit, in accordance with subsection (4), a
notice in English specifying the name of the individual.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (4) The notice required by subsection (3) must be —

(a) affixed to a conspicuous part of such buildings comprised
     within the Town of the Town Council concerned as will
     secure adequate publicity for the contents of the notice; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
29  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

    (b) published in the Gazette, and at an online location
         accessible to residents of housing estates within that Town.
                                                                         [17A

                                                                                                     [17/2017]

                                    PART 4

        FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF TOWN COUNCIL

Functions of Town Council

 20.—(1) Subject to sections 24 and 25, the functions of a Town
Council are —

       (a) to control, manage, maintain and improve the common
            property of the residential and commercial property in the
            housing estates of the Board within the Town for the
            benefit of the residents of those housing estates and to keep
            them in a state of good and serviceable repair and in a
            proper and clean condition; and

       (b) to exercise such powers and perform such duties as may
            from time to time be conferred or imposed on the Town
            Council by or under this Act.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the functions of a Town
Council include the conservancy and landscaping of the common
property of the residential and commercial property in the housing
estates of the Board within the Town.

                                                                               [18

Powers of Town Council

 21.—(1) Subject to subsections (2), (6) and (7) and sections 24 and
25, a Town Council may —

       (a) with the prior written consent of the Board, establish and
            maintain places and facilities on or make improvements to
            the common property of the residential and commercial
            property for the benefit of residents of housing estates of
            the Board within the Town;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   30

(b) do, with the approval of the Minister, any of the following
     in relation to any facility that is erected, installed or planted
     within the Town but is outside of the common property of
     the residential and commercial property in the housing
     estates of the Board within the Town:

          (i) erect, install or plant (including landscaping) the
              facility;

          (ii) demolish and relocate the facility;

          (iii) repair and maintain the facility,

(b) provided that the owner of the property on which the
     facility is erected, installed, planted, demolished or
     relocated consents;

          (c) acquire and hold property of any description if, in the
              opinion of the Town Council, the property is necessary for
              the accommodation of the Town Council or for the
              performance of any purpose which the Town Council is
              required or is permitted by this Act to perform and, subject
              to the terms and conditions upon which the property is
              held, to dispose of the property;

(d) set such charges as the Town Council from time to time
     thinks fit for all or any of the following if prescribed by
     rules under section 82:

          (i) for use of any common property within the Town or
              any part of the common property;

          (ii) for use of any improvements made by the Town
               Council to that common property;

          (iii) for such use of any services and facilities provided
                by the Town Council;

          (e) appoint agents to carry out its functions under this Act;

          (f) accept gifts and donations whether of property or
              otherwise and whether subject to any special trust or not;
              and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
31  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

       (g) do all such other acts as are reasonably necessary for the
            exercise or performance of all or any of the powers or
            duties of the Town Council under this Act and for the
            enforcement of its by-laws and perform any other function
            which is incidental or conducive to the attainment or
            furtherance of the purposes of the Town Council in
            accordance with the provisions of this Act.

                                                                                                [23/2005; 17/2017]

 (2) However, nothing in subsection (1) confers any power on a
Town Council to wholly remove, demolish or destroy, without the
prior consent of the Board, any recreational equipment or other
installation or structure that —

    (a) is situated on any common property in a housing estate
         within its Town; and

      (b) is not constructed by the Town Council.            [17/2017]
(3) A Town Council may —

    (a) manage or maintain —

    (i) any parking place, or any market or food centre, of
        the Board upon terms and conditions agreed between
        the Town Council and the Board; or

    (ii) any market or food centre of the Government upon
         terms and conditions agreed between the Town
         Council and the Government; or

       (b) carry out such other works on any common property of the
            housing estates within the Town on behalf of the Board
            upon terms and conditions agreed between the Town
            Council and the Board.

                                                                                                [17/2017; 34/2017]

 (4) A Town Council may, on the request of any statutory authority
or any community-based association, and with the approval of the
Minister, carry out any work on behalf of the statutory authority or
association on any property within the Town upon such terms and
conditions as may be agreed between the Town Council and the
statutory authority or association, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   32

 (5) Nothing in subsection (3) authorises a Town Council to enter
upon the property of any person within the Town unless the consent
of the owner of the property has been first obtained.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (6) Except with the prior approval of the Minister, and despite
subsection (1)(g), a Town Council for a Town has no power to carry
on substantial trading or financial activities other than —

(a) activities relating to the control, management, maintenance
     and improvement of the common property of the
     residential and commercial property in the housing
     estates of the Board within the Town;

(b) activities to keep that common property in a state of good
     and serviceable repair and in a proper and clean condition;
     or

       (c) activities expressly permitted under any provision of this
            Act.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (7) Despite subsection (1)(d), a Town Council is not entitled to
demand or take from —

(a) the Board (or any of its contractors or agents) a charge for
     carrying out an activity on any part of the common
     property within the Town for which the Town Council is
     established, where the activity is carried out in the course
     of performing the functions or duties of the Board; or

       (b) any other person a charge for a use that is not prescribed by
            rules under section 82 for the purposes of
            subsection (1)(d).

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (8) ATown Council that demands or takes a charge in contravention
of subsection (7) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (9) Upon conviction of a Town Council for an offence under
subsection (8) for taking a charge from any person, the Court may, in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
33  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

addition to any penalty that may be imposed under that subsection,
order the Town Council to refund to that person the charge taken.

                                                                               [19

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

Secretary and other staff of Town Council

 22.—(1) ATown Council must appoint an individual, including any
appointed member, to be the secretary to the Town Council on such
terms and conditions as the Town Council may determine who is
responsible to the Town Council for the proper administration and
management of the functions and affairs of the Town Council in
accordance with this Act.

 (2) However, an individual is disqualified from being appointed
under subsection (1) as, and must stop being, the secretary to a Town
Council if the individual —

       (a) is appointed under section 52(1) as the auditor of the Town
            Council;

       (b) is or becomes the managing agent of the Town Council; or

       (c) is in a position to exercise a significant influence over or
            with respect to the management or operation of the
            business of the managing agent of the Town Council.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (3) The individual appointed as the secretary to a Town Council
must, as soon as practicable after assuming the appointment,
complete a declaration of acceptance of that appointment in the
form prescribed by rules under section 82 and deliver the declaration
to the Minister.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (4) A Town Council may appoint such other staff on such terms and
conditions as it may determine to assist the secretary.

 (5) However, an individual is disqualified from being appointed
under subsection (4) as, and must stop being, a relevant key officer of
a Town Council if the individual —

       (a) is appointed under section 52(1) as the auditor of the Town
            Council;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   34

(b) is or becomes the managing agent of the Town Council; or

       (c) is in a position to exercise a significant influence over or
            with respect to the management or operation of the
            business of the managing agent of the Town Council.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (6) The individual appointed as a relevant key officer of a Town
Council must, as soon as practicable after assuming the appointment,
complete a declaration of acceptance of that appointment in the form
prescribed by rules under section 82 and deliver the declaration to the
Minister.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (7) In this section, “relevant key officer” means an individual
occupying a position (however designated) of —

(a) the general manager of the Town Council;

(b) a finance manager of the Town Council; or

          (c) a deputy of the general manager or finance manager of the
              Town Council.
                                                                                 [20

                                                                                                          [17/2017]

Duties of Town Council

 23.—(1) A Town Council must, for the purposes of the residential
and commercial property in the housing estates of the Board within
the Town —

       (a) control, manage and administer the common property of
            the residential and commercial property for the benefit of
            the residents of those estates;

       (b) properly maintain and keep in a state of good and
            serviceable repair the common property of the residential
            and commercial property;

       (c) contribute such sum towards the premiums to be paid by
            the Board for the insurance of the common property of the
            residential and commercial property against damage by
            fire as the Minister may, by written notice to the Town
            Council, determine;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
35  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

    (d) where necessary, renew or replace any fixtures or fittings
         comprised in the common property of the residential and
         commercial property;

    (e) provide essential maintenance and lift rescue services to
        the residents of the residential and commercial property;

    (f) properly maintain and keep in a good and serviceable
        repair (including landscaping of) the facilities within the
        Town that is outside the common property of the
        residential and commercial property in the housing
        estates of the Board within the Town, where the facilities
        are erected, installed or planted by the Town Council with
        the approval of the Minister and the consent of the owner
        of the property on which the facilities are erected, installed
        or planted;

    (g) comply with the provisions of this Act and the rules made
         under this Act; and

       (h) comply with any notice or order served on it by any
            competent, public or statutory authority requiring the
            abatement of any nuisance on the common property of the
            residential and commercial property or ordering repairs or
            other work to be done in respect of the common property.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (2) Where a requirement or duty is imposed on a Town Council by
this section, the Board or any person for whose benefit, or for the
benefit of whose flat that requirement or duty is imposed on the Town
Council, may apply to the General Division of the High Court for an
order compelling the Town Council to carry out the requirement or
perform the duty, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) On an application being made under subsection (2), the General
Division of the High Court may make such order as it thinks proper.

                                                                               [21

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   36

Interaction between Town Council and statutory authorities

 24.—(1) ATown Council must, in the exercise of its powers and the
performance of its functions and duties under this Act in relation to
the residential property and commercial property in the housing
estates of the Board within its Town, work cooperatively and in
collaboration with the following for the benefit of the residents of
those estates:

(a) the Board in the discharge of the Board’s functions under
     the Housing and Development Act 1959;

(b) any statutory authority or public officer performing
     functions (but without specific power) under any written
     law for any of the following purposes:

          (i) securing public safety and ensuring public order in or
              around the Town;

          (ii) preventing disease or injury, or creating and
               maintaining a healthy environment in or around the
               Town;

            (iii) urban development that integrates electronic,
                  information and communication technologies so as
                  to improve quality of life for residents in and around
                  the Town.

                                                                                                         [17/2017]

(2) Where —

(a) the Board, or a statutory authority or public officer
     mentioned in subsection (1)(b), intends to perform
     within the Town for which a Town Council is
     established, a function under any written law for any of
     the purposes mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b), as the
     case may be;

(b) the Board, or the statutory authority or public officer, has
     given to the Town Council a notice of its or the officer’s
     intention to perform that function on or in relation to the
     common property of the residential and commercial
     property in the housing estates of the Board within the
     Town; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
37  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

    (c) the Town Council has unreasonably delayed, hampered or
        prevented the performance of that function on or in relation
        to that common property,

the Board, or the statutory authority or public officer (as the case may
be) with the consent of the Board, may give notice to the Town
Council concerned requiring the Town Council (according to the
circumstances of the case) to do, or to refrain from doing, such things
as are specified in the notice as to facilitate or enable the Board, or the
statutory authority or public officer (as the case may be), to so
perform that function.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (3) If a notice given to a Town Council under subsection (2) is not
complied with, the Board, or the statutory authority or public officer
(as the case may be) may —

    (a) carry out, or cause to be carried out, all or any of the things
         as are specified in the notice, and perform its or the
         officer’s function on or in relation to the common property
         of the residential and commercial property in the housing
         estates of the Board within the Town; and

       (b) recover all expenses reasonably incurred by the Board, or
            the statutory authority or public officer (as the case may
            be) carrying out those things.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (4) Without affecting subsection (3), if a Town Council fails,
without reasonable excuse, to comply with the requirements of a
notice given to it under subsection (2), that Town Council shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding $50 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (5) To avoid doubt, this section is in addition to, and not in
derogation of, any other written law that makes it an offence to
obstruct or impede a public officer or statutory authority or the Board,
or an officer of a statutory authority or the Board, in the performance
of its or the officer’s public function.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   38

 (6) This section does not apply to or in relation to any
emergency‑related purpose within the meaning of section 25.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (7) To avoid doubt, this section does not prohibit a Town Council
from proposing reasonable terms and conditions for carrying out
activities mentioned in section 21(3) or (4).

                                                                             [21A

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

Direction to Town Councils for emergency-related measures

 25.—(1) The Minister may, by written direction given to a Town
Council —

       (a) require the Town Council to prepare itself to deal with
            specified kinds of emergency-related purposes; or

       (b) require that —

               (i) access be given to specified kinds of services by the
                   Town Council for specified kinds of
                   emergency‑related purposes; or

              (ii) priority of access be given to specified kinds of
                   services by the Town Council for specified kinds of
                   emergency‑related purposes.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) Every direction under subsection (1)(b) must specify the
Ministry, department or statutory authority to whom access, or
priority of access, must be given.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (3) The manner in which those preparations are to be made or that
access, or priority of access, is to be given must be set out in the
direction under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (4) The terms and conditions on which the preparations are to be
made or that access, or priority of access, is to be given must be set
out in the direction under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
39  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

 (5) A Town Council must comply with every direction given to it
under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (6) A Town Council that fails to comply with any direction of the
Minister given under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (7) In this section, “emergency-related purpose” means a purpose
related to the management of —

    (a) a public health emergency within the meaning of the
         Infectious Diseases Act 1976;

    (b) a civil defence emergency within the meaning of the Civil
         Defence Act 1986; or

    (c) any other public emergency (natural or otherwise).
                                                                         [21B

                                                                                                    [17/2017]

Power of Town Council to carry out certain works

 26.—(1) Where any defect occurs in any pipe, wire, cable, duct or
other apparatus within a flat in any residential or commercial property
of the Board within the Town which is used for or in connection with
the carrying, conveying or supplying to such property of water,
sewerage, drainage, gas, electricity, garbage or artificially cooled air,
the Town Council may carry out such work as is necessary to rectify
the defect.

 (2) Where —

       (a) a Town Council incurs any expenses or performs any
            repairs, works or acts that it is required or authorised by
            this Act or by any other written law to perform (whether or
            not the expenses were incurred or the repairs, works or acts
            were performed consequent upon the service on it by any
            Government or statutory authority of any notice or order);
            and

       (b) the expenses or the repairs, works or acts were rendered
            necessary by reason of any wilful or negligent act or
            omission on the part of, or breach of any provision of the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   40

          by-laws of the Town Council by, any person or the person’s
          tenant, licensee or invitee,

the amount of those expenses expended by the Town Council in
performing the repairs, works or acts are recoverable by the Town
Council from that person.

                                                                               [22

Power of entry

 27.—(1) For the purpose of carrying out any work —

       (a) under section 23 or 26; or

       (b) required to be carried out by a notice served on it by any
            public authority or statutory board or by an order of the
            Commissioner of Buildings under the Building (Strata
            Management) Act 2004,

a Town Council may, by its employees or agents, enter upon any flat
of the Board or any part of the housing estates within the Town for the
purpose of carrying out the work, in the case of an emergency, at any
time, or, in any other case, at any reasonable time after giving notice
to any occupier of that flat or part of those housing estates.

                                                                                                           [47/2004]

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2020 wef 01/10/2025]

                                                                               [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

 (2) A Town Council may, by its employees or agents, also enter at
any reasonable time, upon any flat of the Board within the Town for
the purpose of determining whether any work is required to be carried
out by the Town Council in accordance with this Act.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (3) A person authorised under subsection (2) to enter upon any
premises must not demand to do so as of right unless prior notice of
the intended entry has been given to the occupier of those premises.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (4) A person who obstructs or hinders a Town Council in the
exercise of its power under subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
41  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000.

                                                                               [23

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

By-laws for regulation of housing estates

 28.—(1) Every Town Council must have by‑laws for the purpose of
the management, administration, control, use or enjoyment of the
common property of the residential and commercial property in the
housing estates of the Board within the Town for the benefit of the
residents of those estates.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2017 wef 01/06/2026]

 (1A) With effect from the date of commencement of section 15(a)
of the Town Councils (Amendment) Act 2017, the by‑laws in force
for every Town Council are the model by‑laws prescribed by rules
under section 57* for the purpose in subsection (1), subject to any
additional by‑laws, or change to the model by‑laws, made by the
Town Council under subsection (1C).

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2017 wef 01/06/2026]

 (1B) The model by‑laws prescribed by rules under section 57* for
the purpose in subsection (1) are deemed made by every Town
Council.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2017 wef 01/06/2026]

 (1C) A Town Council for a Town may make additional by‑laws or
change any model by‑laws for the purpose in subsection (1),
including all or any of the following:

       (a) restricting or prohibiting behaviour or activities on any
            common property;

       (b) restricting or prohibiting parking of vehicles on any
            common property;

       (c) other details of any common property of which the use is
            restricted;

       (d) waste disposal;

*Section 57 is to be construed as section 82 of the Town Councils Act 1988, according to section 20(1) of the
 Revised Edition of the Laws Act 1983.

*Section 57 is to be construed as section 82 of the Town Councils Act 1988, according to section 20(1) of the
 Revised Edition of the Laws Act 1983.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   42

          (e) safety and security measures,

but any additional by‑law or change so made must not be inconsistent
with the model by‑laws.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2017 wef 01/06/2026]

 (2) In addition, a Town Council for a Town may make by‑laws, and
from time to time change by‑laws, for or in respect of all or any of the
following matters:

(a) prescribing the particular by‑laws made for the purpose in
     subsection (1) (including a model by‑law) breach of which
     is a compoundable offence;

(b) prescribing rates or amounts of conservancy and service
     charges in respect of every flat in any residential or
     commercial property, and every stall in any market or food
     centre of the Board, within the Town;

          (c) prescribing the administrative fee to be paid by any person
              in respect of any services provided by the Town Council or
              any debt due to the Town Council;

(d) prescribing the penalty (such penalty, if unpaid, to
     constitute a debt due to the Town Council and be
     recoverable as such) to be paid by the Town Council’s
     licensees or by any owner or tenant of any flat leased from
     the Board for late payment of any conservancy and service
     charges or licence fee due to the Town Council;

       (e) requiring deposits to be placed with the Town Council by
            any owner or tenant of any flat leased from the Board to
            secure the payment of conservancy and service charges.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2017 wef 01/06/2026]

 (3) A Town Council, owner or tenant of a flat leased from the Board
within the Town, is entitled to apply to the court —

(a) for an order to enforce the performance of or restrain the
     breach of any by-law made by that Town Council for the
     purpose in subsection (1); or

(b) to recover damages for any loss or injury to any person or
     property arising out of the breach of any by-law made by
     that Town Council for the purpose in subsection (1),

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
43  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

by or from any person bound to comply therewith or the Town
Council (as the case may be) and the court may make such order
against any such person or the Town Council as the court thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (4) Every additional by‑law or change to the model by‑laws made
under subsection (1C), and every by‑law made or changed under
subsection (2), by a Town Council comes into operation upon the date
specified therein but ceases to have effect upon the expiration of a
period of one month from the date of its publication in the Gazette if
prior to the expiration of that period it has been disapproved by the
Minister by order in the Gazette.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2017 wef 01/06/2026]

 (5) Any order made by the Minister under subsection (4) has effect
upon the date specified in the order but does not affect the validity of
anything previously done under the disapproved by‑law.

 (6) Every additional by‑law or change to the model by‑laws made
under subsection (1C), and every by‑law made or changed under
subsection (2), by a Town Council must, within 15 days of its coming
into operation, be displayed in such places within the Town as the
Town Council may direct.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2017 wef 01/06/2026]

 (7) Any additional by‑law or change to the model by‑laws made by
a Town Council under subsection (1C) must not be inconsistent with
any rule made under the Housing and Development Act 1959 which
is applicable to the Town and any such by‑law which is so
inconsistent is, to the extent of the inconsistency, void.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2017 wef 01/06/2026]

 (8) The by-laws of a Town Council in force on the date of
publication must be published annually in book form and copies
thereof must be made available for purchase at a reasonable price by
members of the public.

 (9) Any person who commits a breach of any of the by-laws made
by a Town Council or makes default in complying with any of the
by‑laws made by a Town Council for the purpose in subsection (1) or
makes default in complying with any of those by‑laws, and every
person who is knowingly a party to the breach or default shall be

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   44

guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (10) In this section —

(a) “flat” includes any stall in any market or food centre of the
     Board; and

(b) “change”, in relation to by‑laws, means amend or revoke
     the by‑laws or add to the by‑laws.

                                                                    [Act 17 of 2017 wef 01/06/2026]

                                                                       [24

                                   PART 4A

                       LIFT UPGRADING WORKS

Interpretation of this Part

 29. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “improvement contribution” means the costs in respect of lift
         upgrading works recoverable by a Town Council from the
         owner of a flat or a Town Council under section 32;

      “lift upgrading works” means any building operations,
         demolition or installation works necessary or ancillary to
         installing any lift or additional lift in a building or part
         thereof;

      “precinct” means any housing estate of the Board or any part
         thereof within a Town that the Minister declares under
         section 30 to be a precinct for the purposes of this Part;

      “transfer” means a conveyance, sale, purchase, assignment,
         legal or equitable mortgage, charge, surrender or disposal in
         any manner of any estate or interest in a flat and includes a
         discharge of a mortgage, a reconveyance or the devolution of
         the rights of a deceased owner of a flat to another person;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
45  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

    “voting value” means the prescribed value of the vote of an
       owner of a flat at any poll under this Part.

                                                               [24A

                                                             [23/2005]

Declaration of precincts

 30.—(1) The Minister may, after consulting the Board and the
Town Council concerned, from time to time by order in the Gazette,
declare any housing estate of the Board or any part thereof within that
Town Council’s Town to be a precinct for the purposes of the Town
Council carrying out any lift upgrading works in buildings within the
precinct.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (2) Any order made under subsection (1) must include a plan with a
description of the housing estate and the buildings within the
precinct.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (3) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, revoke or amend any
order made under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (4) In this section, any reference to the Minister includes a reference
to a Minister of State for the Ministry of National Development.

                                                                             [24B

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

Lift upgrading works in a precinct

 31.—(1) Where any housing estate of the Board or any part thereof
within a Town has been declared a precinct under section 30, the
Town Council for that Town must, as soon as practicable —

       (a) make arrangements to conduct in the manner prescribed a
            poll of such owners of the flats within the precinct as may
            be prescribed with a view to establishing their opinions
            about the Town Council’s proposals to carry out lift
            upgrading works in buildings within the precinct; and

       (b) do such other things as the Minister may direct.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   46

 (2) A poll in connection with any Town Council’s proposal to carry
out lift upgrading works in any building within a precinct within its
Town —

(a) must not be conducted except with the prior written
     approval of the Board; and

       (b) must be a poll of such owners of such flats within the
            building as may be prescribed, being flats the occupants of
            which directly benefit from the lift upgrading works.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (3) A Town Council may carry out lift upgrading works in any
building within a precinct within its Town if, and only if —

(a) it appears from a poll of the prescribed owners of flats
     mentioned in subsection (2)(b) that the total voting value of
     votes in favour of the Town Council’s proposal to carry out
     lift upgrading works in the building is at least 75% of the
     total voting value of votes of all such owners; and

       (b) the Minister approves the carrying out of such lift
            upgrading works.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (4) No poll is invalid by reason of any failure to comply with any
provision of this Part or any rules made under this Part relating to the
conduct of a poll if it appears that the poll was conducted in
accordance with the principles laid down in that provision, and that
the failure did not affect the result of the poll.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (5) In this section, “owner” includes the Board in respect of any flat
which the Board has not sold the leasehold interest in the flat.

                                                                             [24C

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

Power to carry out lift upgrading works and recover
improvement contributions

 32.—(1) As soon as practicable after the Minister has given his or
her approval under section 31(3)(b), the Town Council concerned
must carry out the lift upgrading works in the precinct in such manner
as the Town Council thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
47  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

 (2) Where the Town Council has completed any lift upgrading
works in a building within a precinct, the Town Council may recover,
by way of improvement contributions, the costs incurred by the Town
Council in respect of the lift upgrading works from every owner of
such flats in the building as are mentioned in section 31(2)(b).

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), the amount of improvement
contribution payable under subsection (2) by the owner of a flat
must be determined by the Town Council whose decision is final.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (4) Any improvement contribution determined by a Town Council
under subsection (3) in respect of any lift upgrading works in a
precinct must not be less than the improvement contribution that the
Board might have determined under section 78(3) of the Housing and
Development Act 1959 if the Board had carried out similar upgrading
works in that precinct.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (5) In this section and section 33, “owner”, in relation to any flat
sold by the Board —

    (a) means the person who is the owner of the flat at the time
         the improvement contribution is determined by the Town
         Council under subsection (3); and

    (b) includes an equitable owner, a person who has purchased a
         leasehold interest in the flat and a purchaser under an
         agreement for a lease.
                                                                         [24D

                                                                                                     [23/2005]

Payment of improvement contribution

 33.—(1) Any owner of a flat liable to pay any improvement
contribution under section 32 must, upon a written demand by the
Town Council concerned, pay to the Town Council the improvement
contribution not later than one month from the date of the written
demand.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.     Town Councils Act 1988                                48

(2) Where —

(a) no representation has been taken out under a will or on the
     intestacy of a deceased owner of a flat; or

(b) representation has been taken out but the personal
     representatives fail to apply for the written consent of
     the Board for the transmission or transfer of the flat,

the Town Council concerned may, for the purposes of recovering any
improvement contribution, require the spouse (if any) of the deceased
owner or any beneficiary of his or her estate who has attained the age
of 21 years to pay the improvement contribution as if it is a debt owed
by him or her and recoverable from him or her as such, and such
person may recover from the estate of the deceased owner the sums
paid by him or her to the Town Council.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (3) If any improvement contribution or any part thereof is not paid
by the owner of a flat on the date due, the owner of the flat or any
other person liable to pay the improvement contribution is liable, in
addition, to pay to the Town Council concerned interest and a penalty
in accordance with the rates prescribed.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (4) Such interest and penalty, if unpaid, constitutes a debt due to the
Town Council concerned and is recoverable as such.

                                                                             [24E

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

Recovery of improvement contribution from sale of flat

 34.—(1) Where any improvement contribution payable by the
owner of any flat to a Town Council under section 32 remains unpaid
on the expiry of the period of 3 months after the Town Council has
served on the owner of the flat a written demand of such contribution
under section 33(1), the improvement contribution (including any
interest and penalty thereon) constitutes, on the expiry of that period,
a charge on the flat in favour of the Town Council.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (2) Where a Town Council has incurred or become liable for any
reasonable legal costs and reasonable expenses incurred in
connection with the collection or attempted collection of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
49  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

unpaid improvement contribution (including any interest and penalty
thereon) before it exercised its power of sale under subsection (5),
such legal costs and expenses rank in priority to any other claims as if
these costs and expenses were due at the date of the constitution of the
charge.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (3) A charge on a flat constituted under subsection (1) continues in
force until all the improvement contributions (including any interest
and penalty thereon), and the necessary or incidental charges
(including legal costs) incurred by the Town Council concerned
before it exercised its power of sale under subsection (5) (as the case
may be) secured by the charge have been paid.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (4) Any charge on a flat constituted under subsection (1) is subject
to —

    (a) all encumbrances registered or notified under the Land
         Titles Act 1993 in respect of that flat before the date of the
         constitution of the charge;

    (b) all moneys due under the lease of the flat to the Board (on
         its own account or on account of the Central Provident
         Fund Board), whether before, on or after the date of the
         constitution of the charge; and

       (c) all moneys due to the Central Provident Fund Board under
            the charge constituted under section 21 or 21B of the
            Central Provident Fund Act 1953, whether before, on or
            after the date of the constitution of the charge.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (5) Upon the constitution of the charge on a flat under
subsection (1), the Town Council concerned has the power of sale
and all other powers relating or incidental thereto to sell and
effectually transfer the title to the flat to any purchaser as if the Town
Council is a registered mortgagee, even though the charge is not
registered under the Land Titles Act 1993.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (6) Subject to subsection (7), a Town Council must not proceed to
sell any flat which is subject to a charge constituted under
subsection (1) unless —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   50

(a) notice of the intended sale has been served or published in
     the prescribed manner;

(b) at the end of 90 days after the date of such notice of the
     intended sale, the improvement contribution or any part
     thereof, and any necessary or incidental charges (including
     legal costs) incurred by the Town Council concerned
     before it exercised its power of sale under subsection (5),
     remain due and unpaid;

          (c) there is no legal action pending in court to restrain the
              Town Council from proceeding with the sale; and

       (d) the Town Council has obtained prior written approval from
            the Board as to the eligibility of the person intending to
            purchase the flat.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (7) A Town Council must not proceed under subsection (5) to sell
any flat in respect of which any improvement contribution (including
any interest and penalty thereon) or any part thereof is due if there is
upon the flat and liable to be seized and sold by the Town Council, by
enforcement order for seizure and sale of property, any movable
property belonging to the owner of the flat of a value estimated by the
Town Council to be sufficient to realise the sum required to satisfy
such unpaid improvement contribution.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (8) For the purpose of estimating the value of any movable property
belonging to the owner of a flat under subsection (7), a Town Council
may, by its employees or agents, and at any reasonable time after
giving notice to any occupier of the flat, enter upon the flat to carry
out such valuation.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (9) Where a Town Council has sold any flat under subsection (5),
neither the purchaser of the flat nor the Registrar of Titles are to be
concerned to inquire into the regularity or validity of the sale or
transfer.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
51  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

 (10) For the purpose of registering a transfer of any flat sold under
subsection (5), the Registrar of Titles may dispense with the
production of the duplicate lease of the flat or the duplicate
subsidiary certificate of title in respect of the flat, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (11) Where a charge on a flat is constituted under subsection (1), the
owner of the flat is, upon payment of all the improvement
contributions (including any interest and penalty thereon) due, and
any necessary or incidental charges (including legal costs) incurred
by the Town Council concerned before it exercised its power of sale
under subsection (5), entitled to —

    (a) a certificate of discharge executed and acknowledged by
         the Town Council as to the receipt of such payment; and

    (b) upon the execution of the certificate of discharge or, in the
         event of the Town Council refusing to execute the
         certificate of discharge, an order of court declaring that
         the flat is discharged from the charge, and the flat freed
         from the charge constituted under subsection (1).
                                                                          [24F

                                                                                                     [23/2005]

Application of proceeds of sale of flat

 35. The moneys received by a Town Council in exercise of its
power of sale under section 34(5), after discharging all prior
encumbrances, must be held by it in trust to be applied —

       (a) firstly, in payment of all costs and expenses properly and
            reasonably incurred by the Town Council as incidental to
            the sale or any attempted sale, or otherwise;

       (b) secondly, in payment to the Central Provident Fund Board
            of all moneys secured by its charge constituted under
            section 21 or 21B of the Central Provident Fund Act 1953
            and are mentioned in section 34(4);

       (c) thirdly, in payment to the Board of such moneys due under
            the lease of the flat to the Board as are mentioned in
            section 34(4);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   52

(d) fourthly, in payment to the Board of all moneys secured by
     its charge on the flat (if any) under section 82 of the
     Housing and Development Act 1959 for unpaid
     improvement contribution, and in payment to the Town
     Council of all moneys secured by its charge on the flat (if
     any), in the order of their priority;

          (e) fifthly, in discharge, equally and without preference, of —

          (i) the conservancy and service charges and interest
              accrued and due to the Town Council at the date of
              the sale; and

          (ii) any improvement contribution (including any
               interest and penalty thereon) accrued and due to
               the Town Council at the date of the sale, whether or
               not secured by any charge under section 32;

          (f) sixthly, in discharge of any improvement contribution
              (including any interest and penalty thereon) accrued and
              due to the Board at the date of the sale, which is not secured
              by any charge under section 78 of the Housing and
              Development Act 1959;

(g) seventhly, in payment of subsequent mortgages and
     charges (if any) in the order of their priority; and

(h) finally, the residue of such moneys so received must be
     paid to the person who appears from the land‑register kept
     under the Land Titles Act 1993 to be entitled to the flat sold
     or to be authorised to give receipts for the proceeds of the
     sale thereof.
                                                                     [24G

                                                                                                 [23/2005]

Recovery of payments due to Town Council

 36. Any improvement contribution, interest and penalty payable to
a Town Council under this Part may be recovered by the Town
Council by an action for a debt in any court of competent authority.

                                                                             [24H

                                                                                                [23/2005; 33/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
53  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

Power of Minister to make rules

 37.—(1) The Minister may make rules for giving effect to the
provisions of this Part and for the due administration thereof and, in
particular, for or with respect to all or any of the following matters:

    (a) prescribing the manner and procedure for obtaining at a
         poll, the opinion of owners of flats for lift upgrading
         works;

    (b) prescribing the voting value of votes by owners of flats,
         including different voting values in respect of different
         classes of owners;

    (c) prescribing the manner for recovering the improvement
        contribution from owners of the flats;

    (d) prescribing the interest and penalty to be paid by any
         person for the late payment of any improvement
         contribution;

    (e) prescribing any expenditure limits for lift upgrading
        works;

    (f) prescribing anything that may be prescribed.

                                                             [23/2005]

(2) The Minister may, in making any such rules, provide that —

    (a) any contravention of, or failure or neglect to comply with,
         any provision of the rules shall be an offence punishable
         with a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

    (b) where an offence under the rules committed by a Town
         Council is proved to have been committed with the consent
         or connivance of, or to be attributable to any neglect on the
         part of, its chairperson or secretary, or any individual who
         was purporting to act in any such capacity, that
         chairperson, secretary or individual (as the case may be)
         as well as the Town Council shall be guilty of that offence
         and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
         accordingly.
                                                                          [24I

                                                                                                     [23/2005]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   54

Saving of other rights of Town Council

 38.—(1) Nothing in this Part is to be construed to affect the right of
a Town Council to enforce any breach of covenant, condition or
undertaking under any licence, lease, tenancy or mortgage or any
other agreement in respect of any flat within its Town.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (2) No such right of a Town Council is to be deemed prejudiced by
reason only of the Town Council’s exercise of any power or
performance of any act under this Part.

                                                                              [24J

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

                                    PART 5

                PROCEEDINGS OF TOWN COUNCIL

Standing orders

 39. A Town Council may make standing orders for regulating its
procedure and, in particular, the standing orders may make such
provision for the preservation of order at meetings as the Town
Council may consider necessary.

                                                                               [25

Meetings

 40.—(1) A Town Council must meet at such times as may be laid
down in its standing orders and may adjourn from time to time.

 (2) The chairperson may at any time summon a meeting of the
Town Council.

 (3) The chairperson must, on a requisition signed by at least
two‑thirds of the members of the Town Council to that effect,
summon a meeting of the Town Council within 7 days of receiving
the requisition.

 (4) The secretary must give notice of a meeting to each member of
the Town Council at least 2 clear days before the day of the meeting,
except in the case of an emergency meeting when as long a notice as
possible must be given.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
55  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

 (5) Accidental omission to give a notice to any member of the Town
Council under subsection (4) does not affect the validity of a meeting.

                                                                               [26

Minutes

 41.—(1) Minutes of the proceedings of a Town Council and a
committee thereof must be kept and authenticated in accordance with
standing orders.

 (2) Until the contrary is proved, a meeting of a Town Council or a
committee thereof, in respect of the proceedings of which a minute
has been kept and authenticated in accordance with its standing
orders, is deemed to have been duly convened and held and all the
members present at the meeting are deemed to have been duly
qualified.

 (3) Where the proceedings are proceedings of a committee, the
committee is deemed to have been duly constituted and to have had
power to deal with the matters referred to in the minutes.

                                                                               [27

Acts of Town Council

 42.—(1) All questions coming or arising before a meeting of a
Town Council or a committee thereof must be decided by a majority
of the members present and voting thereon.

 (2) Nothing in subsection (1) limits the discretion of a Town
Council or a committee thereof to determine any matter by circulating
papers.

 (3) Any papers so circulated may assume the agreement of the
Town Council or the committee to any matter unless a member
notifies his or her disagreement within such time as may be specified
in such papers.

                                                                               [28

Quorum

 43.—(1) At any meeting of a Town Council, one-third of the
number of members constitutes a quorum.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.      Town Councils Act 1988                               56

 (2) The quorum for any committee of a Town Council must be laid
down in the standing orders of the Town Council.

                                                                               [29

Validity of acts of Town Council

 44. The proceedings of a Town Council or a committee thereof are
not invalidated by any vacancy among its number or by any defect in
the appointment or qualification of any member thereof.

                                                                               [30

Committees

 45.—(1) A Town Council may, by resolution, appoint such number
of committees as it thinks fit for purposes which, in the opinion of the
Town Council, would be better regulated and managed by means of
such committees.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), a committee appointed by a
Town Council under this section may consist of such number of
individuals as the Town Council thinks fit, and may include
individuals who are not members.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (3) At least one-third of the members of each committee formed
under this section must be members of the Town Council, and the
chairperson of a committee must be a member of the Town Council if
the committee is formed under this section by a Town Council for any
of the following matters:

(a) internal audit;

(b) finance;

          (c) procurement of goods or services;

(d) publicity and public relations;

          (e) estate management.

                                                                   [17/2017]

 (4) An individual is disqualified from being appointed as a
committee member under this section, and must cease to be such a
committee member, if the individual —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
57  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

    (a) is appointed under section 52(1) as the auditor of the Town
         Council;

    (b) is or becomes the managing agent of the Town Council; or

       (c) is in a position to exercise a significant influence over or
            with respect to the management or operation of the
            business of the managing agent of the Town Council.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (5) Every individual who is appointed as a committee member
under this section must, as soon as practicable after assuming the
appointment, complete a declaration of acceptance of that
appointment in the form prescribed by rules under section 82 and
deliver the declaration to the Minister.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (6) Each member of a committee formed under this section has
one vote at meetings of the committee.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (7) In addition to his or her general vote, the chairperson, or
member of a committee presiding at a meeting, of the committee has,
in the case of an equality of votes, a casting vote.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (8) Subject to this Act and any restriction in a resolution under
subsection (1), a committee formed under this section may regulate
its own proceedings and business as it thinks fit.

                                                                               [31

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

Delegation of powers

 46.—(1) A Town Council may, subject to such conditions or
restrictions as it thinks fit, delegate to any member of the Town
Council, or to any committee of the Town Council or to any member
thereof, all or any of the powers, functions and duties by this Act
(except a restricted power), and any power, function or duty so
delegated may be exercised or performed by such member or
committee in the name and on behalf of the Town Council.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) A Town Council may, subject to such conditions or restrictions
as it thinks fit, delegate to any employee thereof or any agent all or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   58

any of the powers, functions and duties by this Act (except a restricted
power), and any power, function or duty so delegated may be
exercised or performed by such employee or agent in the name and on
behalf of the Town Council.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (3) A Town Council may continue to exercise any power conferred
upon it, or perform any function or duty under this Act, despite the
delegation of such power, function or duty under this section.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (4) Any delegation of power, function or duty under this section by
a Town Council must not be inconsistent with the Financial Rules.

 (5) In this section, a restricted power is the power of a Town
Council under this Act to make by-laws, and the power of delegation
conferred by this section.

                                                                               [32

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

                                    PART 6

                        FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Constitution of Town Council Fund

 47.—(1) For the purposes of improving, managing and maintaining
the common property of the residential and commercial property in
the housing estates of the Board, a Town Council must establish and
maintain separate funds for improvements to and the management
and maintenance of residential property and of commercial property;
and such funds together constitute the Town Council Fund and are,
with all property which is or may become vested in the Town Council,
under the direction and control of the Town Council subject to the
provisions of this Act.

 (2) All moneys received by a Town Council by virtue of this Act or
any other Act must be paid into the Town Council Fund and all
liabilities falling to be discharged by a Town Council must be
discharged out of that Fund.

 (3) All moneys of the Town Council Fund that are not immediately
required must be paid into the appropriate fund established under

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
59  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

subsection (1) to which the moneys relate and be applicable only to
meet such expenses and liabilities as are properly attributable to that
fund.

 (4) A Town Council must establish and maintain, as part of the
Town Council Fund, separate sinking funds, each for residential
property and for commercial property in the housing estates of the
Board within the Town, to meet the expenditure and liabilities
mentioned in subsection (8)(a).

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (5) From 1 April 2017, every Town Council must also establish and
maintain, as part of the Town Council Fund, a sinking fund called a
lift replacement fund, each for residential property and for
commercial property in the housing estates of the Board within the
Town —

    (a) to meet the cost of —

    (i) any capital expenditure (including works, plant,
        equipment, appliances and insurance premiums)
        related to the replacement of lifts in those
        residential property or commercial property; or

    (ii) lift upgrading works under Part 4A in those
         residential property or commercial property; and

       (b) to pay any principal or interest on moneys borrowed or
            raised by the Town Council for any capital expenditure
            mentioned in paragraph (a).

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (6) From 1 April 2017, every Town Council must pay into the lift
replacement fund an amount out of moneys in the Town Council’s
sinking funds established under subsection (4), being not less than an
amount prescribed.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (7) The Minister may, from time to time, prescribe the minimum
amount of —

    (a) the conservancy and service charges which are paid, or are
         due and payable, or both, to a Town Council under
         section 53; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   60

(b) any grants-in-aid made to a Town Council under
     section 56,

to be paid or credited into the sinking funds and the lift replacement
funds established under subsections (4) and (5), respectively,
established for residential property and for commercial property.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (8) A Town Council must not disburse any moneys —

(a) from any sinking fund otherwise than for the purposes of
     meeting expenses or liabilities properly attributable to that
     sinking fund in respect of —

          (i) cyclical major repainting of any part of the common
              property of the residential property and commercial
              property in the housing estates of the Board within
              the Town;

          (ii) renewal or replacement of any roofing system, water
               tanks, pumps and water supply system, electrical
               supply system and lightning protection system
               existing for common use or purposes of residents
               of the residential or commercial property in the
               housing estates of the Board within the Town;

          (iii) major repairs and maintenance of the common
                property of the residential property and commercial
                property and boundary walls of the housing estates of
                the Board within the Town;

          (iv) improvement contributions due to the Board in
               respect of general upgrading works carried out
               under Part 4A of the Housing and Development
               Act 1959 on any part of the common property in the
               housing estates of the Board within the Town;

          (v) any other works which may be prescribed from time
               to time; or

          (vi) paying at the end of a financial year surpluses to any
               lift replacement fund as authorised by
               subsection (12) or by the Financial Rules;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
61  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

    (b) from a lift replacement fund except for the purposes
         specified in subsection (5)(a) and (b); or

    (c) from the Town Council Fund except for the purpose of —

    (i) exercising its powers or carrying out its duties and
        functions under this Act or any other Act;

    (ii) paying any fine imposed on the Town Council upon
         its conviction for any offence; or

             (iii) paying at the end of a financial year surpluses to any
                   sinking fund or lift replacement fund as authorised
                   by subsection (12) or by the Financial Rules.

                                                                                                [23/2005; 17/2017]

 (9) Any Town Council which contravenes subsection (8)(a), (b) or
(c) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $5,000.

                                                                                                [23/2005; 17/2017]

 (10) Despite anything in this section, a Town Council may, with the
approval or on the direction of the Minister, disburse moneys from an
operating fund of the Town Council —

    (a) to erect, install or plant (including landscaping) any
         facility;

    (b) to demolish and relocate any facility; or

    (c) to repair and maintain any facility erected, installed or
        planted,

within the Town but outside of the common property of the residential
and commercial property in the housing estates of the Board within
the Town, provided that the owner of the property on which the
facility is erected, installed or planted consents.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (11) All payments to and out of the Town Council Fund must be
made to and by the secretary who is responsible therefor to the Town
Council.

 (12) If at the end of a financial year of a Town Council, there is a
surplus in an operating fund of the Town Council, or a surplus in a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   62

sinking fund of the Town Council established under subsection (4),
the Town Council may do the following, whichever is applicable:

(a) transfer the whole or part of the surplus in the operating
     fund to a sinking fund established under subsection (4)
     or (5);

       (b) transfer the whole or part of the surplus in a sinking fund
            established under subsection (4) to a lift replacement fund
            established under subsection (5) to make good any deficit
            in the lift replacement fund.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (13) Where an order is made under section 3(1) other than in
consequence of any general election or by-election under the
Parliamentary Elections Act 1954, and any residential or
commercial property or any part of the common property thereof is
transferred from the Town of one Town Council to the Town of
another, the Town Councils may agree on the amount of the sinking
fund relating to such property or such part to be transferred and paid
to the Town Council to which the property or part is transferred; and
in default of agreement the amount must be determined by the
Minister whose decision is final.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (14) In this section —

“commercial property” means any commercial property which
   does not form part of any residential property and includes
   any market and food centre;

“operating fund”, for a Town Council, means a fund that is
   established as part of the Town Council Fund of the Town
   Council but is not a sinking fund established by the Town
   Council under subsection (4) or (5).

                                             [33

                                  [17/2017; 4/2021]

Transfer of surpluses after Parliamentary election

 48.—(1) Despite any other provision of this Act, where —

       (a) a writ of election is issued in respect of any constituency
            the area of which forms wholly or partly the area of a Town

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
63  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

    or any constituency part of which forms the area of a Town;
    and

    (b) there is shown in the audited balance sheet for the last
         completed financial year of the Town Council for that
         Town immediately before the issue of that writ any excess
         of revenue over expenditure in any fund (other than a
         sinking fund) established by the Town Council under
         section 47,

the Town Council must, as soon as practicable after the relevant date
specified in subsection (2), transfer in accordance with this section
the excess in every such fund (called in this Act its surpluses) to such
sinking fund of that Town Council as may be prescribed.

(2) The relevant date mentioned in subsection (1) is —

    (a) the date on which the results of the election in the
         constituency are published in accordance with the
         Parliamentary Elections Act 1954; or

    (b) where a writ of election is issued in respect of more than
         one such constituency, the latest date among the dates on
         which the results of the election in each such constituency
         are published in accordance with that Act.

 (3) Where there is an election in any or every whole constituency
within a Town without any prior alteration to the boundaries of such
constituency, the Town Council for the Town must, subject to
subsection (7), transfer its surpluses in the following manner:

    (a) if the Member or Members elected and the previous
         Member or Members for the constituency stood in
         elections for the same political party — 80% of its
         surpluses relating to such area of the Town comprised in
         that constituency must be transferred to the prescribed
         sinking funds of the Town Council relating to that area; or

    (b) if the Member or Members elected and the previous
         Member or Members for the constituency stood in
         elections for different political parties — all its surpluses
         relating to such area of the Town comprised in that

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   64

          constituency must be transferred to the prescribed sinking
          funds of the Town Council relating to that area.

 (4) Where the boundaries of any constituency within a Town are
altered under the Parliamentary Elections Act 1954 and there is an
election in any or every new constituency so formed —

(a) any order made under section 3 declaring the constituency
     to be or to form part of the Town, and any order made under
     section 4 establishing a Town Council for that Town, is not
     invalidated on account of such alteration in the boundaries
     but remains valid and of full force until expressly revoked
     or amended; and

(b) except as otherwise provided in subsections (5), (6) and
     (7), the Town Council must transfer 80% of its surpluses to
     the prescribed sinking funds of the Town Council.

 (5) Where all or any of the constituencies within a Town have been
amalgamated under the Parliamentary Elections Act 1954 to form a
new constituency the total area of which, either alone or together with
the other constituencies, remains identical to that of the Town, and
there is an election in the new constituency, the Town Council for that
Town must, subject to subsection (7), transfer its surpluses in the
following manner:

(a) if the Member or Members elected for the new
     constituency and the previous Members of the
     amalgamated former constituencies stood in elections for
     the same political party — 80% of its surpluses relating to
     such area of the Town comprised in that new constituency
     must be transferred to the prescribed sinking funds of the
     Town Council relating to that area; or

(b) if the Member or Members elected for the new
     constituency and the previous Members of the
     amalgamated former constituencies stood in elections for
     different political parties — all its surpluses relating to
     such area of the Town comprised in that new constituency
     must be transferred to the prescribed sinking funds of the
     Town Council relating to that area.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
65  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

 (6) Where all or any of the constituencies within a Town have been
subdivided under the Parliamentary Elections Act 1954 to form new
constituencies the total area of which, whether on their own or
together with other constituencies, remains identical to that of the
Town, and there is an election in any of the new constituencies, the
Town Council must, subject to subsection (7), transfer its surpluses in
the following manner:

    (a) if the Member or Members elected for any such new
         constituency and the previous Member or Members of the
         subdivided former constituency stood in elections for the
         same political party — 80% of its surpluses relating to such
         area of the Town comprised in that new constituency must
         be transferred to the prescribed sinking funds of the Town
         Council relating to that area;

    (b) if the Member or Members elected for any such new
         constituency and the previous Member or Members of the
         subdivided former constituency stood in elections for
         different political parties — all its surpluses relating to
         such area of the Town comprised in that new constituency
         must be transferred to the prescribed sinking funds of the
         Town Council relating to that area.

 (7) Nothing in this section requires a Town Council for a Town to
transfer to any of its sinking funds any part of its surpluses which —

    (a) are fixed assets owned by the Town Council on the day
         immediately before a writ of election is issued in respect of
         any constituency within the Town; or

    (b) are necessary to meet any capital commitments made or
         entered into by that Town Council on or before that same
         day.

(8) For the purposes of this section —

    (a) an independent candidate is regarded as standing in an
         election for a political party comprising himself or herself;
         and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   66

(b) independent candidates standing for election as a group are
     regarded as standing in an election for a political party
     comprising members of that group.

(9) In this section —

“election” and “group” have the respective meanings given by
   the Parliamentary Elections Act 1954;

“independent candidate” means a person who does not stand in
   an election for any political party, whether individually or in a
   group;

“Member” means an elected Member of Parliament;

“previous Member”, in relation to a constituency where an
   election is held, means the Member elected at an election
   immediately preceding the firstmentioned election for —

          (a) the constituency;

          (b) any former constituency that the constituency was
               part of; or

          (c) any former constituency forming part of the
              constituency;

“sinking fund” means a sinking fund established under
   section 47(4) or a lift replacement fund established under
   section 47(5);

“writ of election” means a writ of election issued under
   section 24 of the Parliamentary Elections Act 1954.

                                                                       [34

                                                                   [17/2017]

Accounts and records

 49.—(1) Every Town Council has a duty to ensure that there are
kept in accordance with the Financial Rules —

       (a) proper accounts and records of the transactions and affairs
            of the Town Council; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
67  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

      (b) proper and separate accounts for each of the funds
           established under section 47(1), (4) and (5).

                                                                                                         [17/2017]

(2) A Town Council has a duty to do all things necessary to —

    (a) ensure that all money payable to the Town Council is
         properly collected;

    (b) ensure that appropriate arrangements are implemented for
         the security of all money received by the Town Council;

    (c) ensure that all money expended by the Town Council is
        correctly spent and properly authorised;

    (d) ensure that adequate control is maintained over assets
         owned by or in the custody or control of the Town Council;

    (e) ensure that all liabilities incurred by the Town Council are
        properly authorised; and

    (f) ensure that its accounts and records are kept up-to-date and
        ready for inspection at any time by its auditor, an inspector
        or any other person authorised by or under this Act or any
        other written law to inspect those accounts and records.
                                                                           [35

                                                                                                    [17/2017]

Annual accounts

 50.—(1) A Town Council must, within 3 months after the close of
each financial year, prepare and submit financial statements in such
form as the Auditor-General may direct in respect of that year to the
auditor.

 (2) The financial year of a Town Council begins on 1 April of each
year and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

 (3) The first financial year of a Town Council begins on the date of
its establishment and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

                                                                               [36

Estimates

 51.—(1) Not later than one month before the end of each financial
year, a Town Council must prepare, and display for public inspection

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   68

in such places within the Town as it may direct, estimates of its
revenue and expenditure for the next financial year together with a list
of works which the Town Council proposes to undertake during the
next financial year.

 (2) The estimates must set out, under separate headings, the sources
of revenue and the distribution of expenditure.

 (3) Where several matters are dealt with under one heading, each
such matter must be itemised and shown in a separate subheading
relating to similar items.

(4) The estimates may provide for —

(a) expenditure of such sums as may be necessary to defray the
     cost of official ceremonies of the Town Council; and

(b) payment of allowances and salaries to members of the
     Town Council.

(5) The list of works must show in respect of each work —

(a) the estimated total cost thereof;

(b) the date on which the work is expected to be completed;
     and

          (c) the amount to be expended thereon during the next
              financial year.

 (6) A Town Council may from time to time revise the estimates and
list of works prepared by it under subsection (1).

                                                                               [37

Audit

 52.—(1) The accounts of a Town Council must be audited by the
Auditor-General or such other auditor as may be appointed annually
by the Town Council with the approval of the Minister after the
Minister has consulted the Auditor-General.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) A person is not qualified for appointment as an auditor under
subsection (1) unless the person is a public accountant within the
meaning of the Companies Act 1967.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
69  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

 (3) The remuneration of the auditor must be paid out of the Town
Council Fund.

 (4) The auditor must, as soon as practicable after the accounts have
been submitted for audit by a Town Council, send a report of the
auditor’s audit to the Town Council.

(5) The auditor must in the auditor’s report state —

    (a) whether the financial statements show fairly the financial
         transactions and the state of affairs of the Town Council;

    (b) whether proper accounting and other records have been
         kept, including records of all assets of the Town Council
         whether purchased, donated or otherwise;

    (c) whether the receipts, expenditure, investment of moneys,
        and the acquisition and disposal of assets by the Town
        Council during the financial year have been in accordance
        with this Act; and

    (d) such other matters arising from the audit as the auditor
         considers should be reported.

 (6) The auditor may at any other time submit such periodical and
special reports to the Minister and the Town Council upon any matter
arising out of the performance of the auditor’s audit as may appear to
the auditor to be necessary.

 (7) The auditor or any person authorised by the auditor is entitled at
all reasonable times to full and free access to all accounting and other
records relating, directly or indirectly, to the financial transactions of
a Town Council.

 (8) The auditor or a person authorised by the auditor may make
copies of or extracts from any such accounting and other records.

 (9) The auditor may require any person to provide the auditor with
such information in the possession of that person or to which that
person has access as the auditor considers necessary for the purposes
of the auditor’s functions under this Act.

 (10) Any person who fails, without any reasonable cause, to
comply with any requirement of the auditor under subsection (9) shall

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   70

be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1,000.

 (11) The following must be given by a Town Council to the
Minister within 6 months after the close of the financial year to which
the accounts and financial statements relate, or such longer period as
the Minister may in any particular case allow:

(a) a copy of the audited accounts and financial statements of
     the Town Council, signed by the chairperson of and the
     secretary to the Town Council;

(b) a copy of the report made by the auditor.

                                                                   [17/2017]

 (12) The Minister must, as soon as practicable, cause a copy of the
audited accounts and financial statements and of the auditor’s report
mentioned in subsection (11) to be presented to Parliament.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (13) Where the Auditor-General is not the auditor of a Town
Council, a copy of the audited financial statements and any report
made by the auditor must be forwarded to the Auditor-General at the
same time they are submitted to the Minister under subsection (11).

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (14) Within 30 days after a copy of the audited accounts and
financial statements of a Town Council, and a copy of the auditor’s
report, mentioned in subsection (11) are presented to Parliament, the
Town Council must —

(a) display them for public inspection in such places within the
     Town as the Town Council may direct; and

       (b) publish them at an online location accessible to residents of
            the housing estates within the Town.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (15) A Town Council which, without reasonable excuse, is
persistently in default in relation to the requirement imposed by
subsection (11), shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (16) A Town Council must, as soon as practicable after the end of
each financial year, submit to the Minister an annual report on the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
71  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

activities of the Town Council during that financial year and the
Minister must cause a copy of every such report to be presented to
Parliament.

                                                                               [38

Conservancy and service charges

 53.—(1) For the purposes of carrying out its duties and functions
under this Act or any other Act, a Town Council may in each month
levy conservancy and service charges at such rates as it may
determine in accordance with its by-laws in respect of every flat in
any residential or commercial property and every stall in any market
or food centre of the Board within the Town.

 (2) Charges levied by a Town Council under subsection (1) are
payable, subject to this section, by the owner or tenant of every such
flat or stall, as the case may be.

 (3) In respect of any charges levied under subsection (1) and the
interest thereon, the owner of a flat is liable, jointly and severally with
any person who was liable to pay the charges and interest when the
charges become due and payable, to pay the charges and interest to
the Town Council.

 (4) A person who has ceased to be the owner of the flat is only liable
to pay the charges which were unpaid at the time the person ceased to
be the owner and the interest accruing on the unpaid charges until
such time as they are paid.

 (5) Any charges levied under subsection (1) —

       (a) become due and payable to a Town Council in accordance
            with the by-laws of the Town Council; and

       (b) if not paid within the month when the charges become due
            and payable to a Town Council, bear interest at such rate as
            the Town Council thinks fit and such interest accrues from
            the expiry of the month after the date when the charges
            become due and payable unless the Town Council
            determines either generally or in a particular case that
            any unpaid charges bear no interest, and any interest so
            paid forms part of the fund to which the charges belong.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   72

 (6) Where any charges and interest thereon levied under this section
are not paid within the month when they become due and payable, a
Town Council may serve a written demand on an owner or a tenant of
the flat or stall in respect of which the charges are levied.

 (7) Any owner or tenant of a flat or stall who fails to pay any
charges or interest due and owing to a Town Council within 14 days
from the date the written demand mentioned in subsection (6) is
served on the owner or tenant shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

 (8) The court before which the conviction is had may, in addition to
such fine, order the owner or tenant to pay to the Town Council the
amount of any charges together with any interest due thereon or any
interest certified by the Town Council to be due from the owner or
tenant at the date of the owner’s or tenant’s conviction and such
amount may be recovered according to the law for the time being in
force for the recovery of fines.

 (9) Upon the expiry of the period provided under section 75(1) after
the establishment of a Town Council for the Town and so long as a
Town Council is established for the Town, any term in any lease made
by the Board relating to the payment of conservancy and service
charges by any owner or tenant of a flat in any residential or
commercial property or by any tenant of a stall in any market or food
centre of the Board within the Town has no effect and such charges
are thereupon payable to the Town Council in accordance with this
section.

 (10) Without limiting any particular power of a Town Council, any
charges levied by the Town Council under this section may be —

(a) varied by the Town Council from time to time; or

(b) remitted or refunded in whole or in part.

 (11) A Town Council may under this section levy different rates of
charges in respect of flats in any residential or commercial property or
of stalls in any market or food centre of the Board in accordance with
such criteria as it may determine.

 (12) Without limiting subsection (11), a Town Council may
differentiate the rates of charges to take into account any

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
73  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

grants‑in‑aid made under section 56 which are expressed to be for the
benefit of any class of owners of flats.

 (13) Any written demand required by this section to be served on
the owner or tenant of a flat or stall is deemed to be sufficiently
served —

    (a) if the demand is delivered to the owner or tenant or is
         delivered at the flat or stall to some adult member or
         employee of his or her family;

    (b) if it is sent to the owner or tenant by registered post to his or
         her flat or his or her usual or last known place of abode or
         business; or

    (c) if it is affixed to some conspicuous part of his or her flat.

(14) In this section, “owner”, in relation to a flat or stall, includes —

    (a) the person for the time being receiving the rent of the flat,
         whether as agent, trustee or receiver, or who would receive
         the rent if the flat were let to a tenant;

    (b) the personal representative of the estate of an owner or a
         tenant who is deceased;

    (c) the Board in respect of any flat in any residential or
        commercial property or any stall in any market or food
        centre of the Board which is not leased out by the Board at
        the time the charges are levied; and

    (d) the person whose name is included in the Valuation List
         mentioned in the Property Tax Act 1960 as the owner of the
         flat for the purposes of that Act.
                                                                           [39

                                                                                                     [23/2005]

Power to borrow

 54. A Town Council may raise any loan, chargeable upon and
payable out of the revenues and assets of the Town Council, of such
sums of money as may be required for —

       (a) the purposes of meeting expenses or liabilities in respect of
            any works specified in section 47(5)(a) or (8)(a);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   74

(b) the repayment of any loan previously raised for any such
     purposes; and

          (c) such other purposes as may be prescribed.

                                                                       [40

                                                                   [17/2017]

Power of investment

 55. A Town Council may invest its funds in accordance with the
standard investment power of statutory bodies as defined in
section 33A of the Interpretation Act 1965.

                                                                               [41

                                                                                                           [45/2004]

Grants

 56. For the purposes of enabling a Town Council to carry out its
functions under this Act or any other Act, the Minister may from time
to time make grants‑in‑aid to the Town Council of such sums of
money and subject to such conditions as the Minister may determine
out of moneys to be provided by Parliament.

                                                                               [42

Financial Rules

 57.—(1) The Minister may make rules to be called Financial Rules,
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, for carrying out the
provisions of this Part by a Town Council and, in particular, such
rules may provide for —

       (a) the collection, receipt, custody, issue, expenditure, due
            accounting for, care and management of all moneys of a
            Town Council and the guidance of all persons concerned
            therein;

       (b) the more effectual record, examination, inspection and
            check of all receipts and expenditure and the keeping of all
            necessary books and accounts;

       (c) the forms for all accounts, books and other documents
            required under the provisions of this Act or the rules made
            under this Act;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
75  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

    (d) the purchase, safe custody, issue, sale or other disposal or
         writing‑off of stores and other property of a Town Council,
         and the proper accounting for, and stocktaking of, such
         stores and property;

    (e) the preparation of estimates of revenue and expenditure;

    (f) the making of advances to officers of a Town Council and
        other persons and the rates and limits of such advances and
        the rates of interest thereon;

    (g) a requirement that a Town Council must prepare and keep
         up‑to‑date a long-term financial plan that relates to a period
         to be prescribed and containing prescribed information
         about the Town Council’s proposals for the repair,
         maintenance, management and improvement of common
         property within its Town for each financial year of the
         period to which the plan relates;

    (h) requirements for a Town Council which is or is likely to
         become insolvent, or which is or is likely to become unable
         to pay its debts (within the meaning as prescribed) —

    (i) to report to the Minister of that fact; and

    (ii) to do or not to do any act or thing prescribed (which
         may include preparing a debt repayment plan and
         appointing one or more advisers to advise the Town
         Council on the proper management of its business);

    (i) the circumstances under which a surplus in —

    (i) an operating fund established for residential property
        in the housing estates of the Board within a Town
        may be transferred to an operating fund established
        for commercial property in those housing estates,
        and vice versa;

    (ii) a sinking fund established under section 47(4) for
         residential property in the housing estates of the
         Board within a Town may be transferred to a sinking
         fund established under that provision for commercial
         property in those housing estates, and vice versa; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   76

          (iii) a lift replacement fund established under
                section 47(5) for residential property in the
                housing estates of the Board within a Town may be
                transferred to a lift replacement fund established
                under that provision for commercial property in
                those housing estates, and vice versa; and

      (j) the apportioning of moneys in the Town Council Fund for
           the purposes of section 48.

                                                                                                         [17/2017]

(2) In addition, the Financial Rules may —

(a) provide that any contravention of any provision of the
     Financial Rules shall be an offence punishable with a fine
     not exceeding $5,000; and

(b) provide for such saving, transitional and other
     consequential, incidental and supplemental provisions as
     the Minister considers necessary or expedient.
                                                                       [43

                                                                                                 [17/2017]

                                   PART 6A

          INSPECTION AND OFFICIAL MANAGEMENT
                          OF TOWN COUNCILS

Compliance reviews

 58.—(1) The Minister may establish a program of compliance
reviews for Town Councils, the purpose of which is to ensure that the
Town Councils conduct their business in accordance with this Act,
the Financial Rules and rules made under section 82.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) A compliance review is to be carried out by an inspector, or 2 or
more inspectors, assigned to the review by the Minister.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (3) The inspector or inspectors assigned under subsection (2) to
carry out a compliance review of a Town Council must report to the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
77  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

Minister and the Town Council on the results of the compliance
review.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (4) The results of a compliance review of a Town Council must be
given to the Town Council, and may contain recommendations for
administrative or regulatory change.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (5) The members, secretary, employees, key officers and committee
members of a Town Council, or a managing agent of a Town Council
and its employees (as the case may be) must, at the request of an
inspector assigned to carry out a compliance review of the Town
Council —

    (a) do anything reasonably necessary to facilitate the exercise
         of powers of the inspector under this section;

    (b) answer questions relevant to the compliance review asked
         by the inspector;

    (c) produce specified records or documentary material
        relevant to the compliance review;

    (d) give other assistance the inspector reasonably requires; or

    (e) do any combination of paragraphs (a) to (d).

                                                             [17/2017]

 (6) An inspector conducting a compliance review of a Town
Council may by notice require any person mentioned in
subsection (5) —

    (a) to produce accounts and statements in writing with respect
         to any matter in question at the compliance review, being a
         matter on which that person has or can reasonably obtain
         information;

    (b) to return answers in writing to any questions or inquiries
         addressed to the person on any matter mentioned in
         paragraph (a);

    (c) to produce copies of documents in the person’s custody or
        under the person’s control which relate to any matter in
        question at the compliance review;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   78

(d) to attend at a specified time and place and give evidence or
     produce any such documents; or

          (e) to verify by statutory declaration any such accounts,
              documents, statements or answers produced, returned or
              given under paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d), as the case may
              be.
                                                                               [43A

                                                                                                          [17/2017]

Investigations

 59.—(1) The Minister may direct an investigation under this
Part into the affairs of a Town Council if —

       (a) there are reasonable grounds to suspect a material
            irregularity in or affecting the conduct of the Town
            Council’s affairs; or

       (b) any document or information the production of which has
            been required of a person under section 58 has not been
            produced in compliance with that requirement, and the
            inspector concerned has reasonable grounds to believe that
            the person will not produce the document or information in
            compliance with that requirement.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) An investigation under subsection (1) is to be carried out by an
inspector, or 2 or more inspectors, assigned to the investigation by the
Minister.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (3) The inspector or inspectors assigned under subsection (2) to
carry out an investigation of a Town Council must report to the
Minister and the Town Council on the results of the investigation.

                                                                             [43B

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

Powers of inspectors in investigations

 60.—(1) For the purposes of an investigation of a Town Council, an
inspector assigned to carry out the investigation has right of access at
any reasonable time in the day, and after giving 6 hours’ prior notice
of the exercise of the right to access at any other time, to —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
79  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

    (a) the premises of the Town Council concerned; and

       (b) the records or other documents of the Town Council,
            whether or not on the premises of the Town Council
            concerned.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) The members, secretary, employees, officers and committee
members of a Town Council, or a managing agent of a Town Council
and its employees (as the case may be) must, at the request of an
inspector —

    (a) do anything reasonably necessary to facilitate the exercise
         of powers of the inspector under this section;

    (b) answer questions relevant to the investigation asked by the
         inspector;

    (c) produce specified records or documents relevant to the
        investigation;

    (d) give other assistance the inspector reasonably requires; or

    (e) do any combination of paragraphs (a) to (d).

                                                             [17/2017]

 (3) For the purposes of an investigation of a Town Council, an
inspector assigned to carry out the investigation may, by notice,
require —

    (a) a person to produce, within a reasonable time allowed in
         the notice, written answers to specified questions or other
         specified written information, which are within the
         knowledge of that person or in the person’s custody or
         under the person’s control;

    (b) a person within Singapore who appears to be acquainted
         with the circumstances of the investigation to attend before
         the inspector at a specified time and place for examination
         on a subject stated in the notice; or

    (c) a person to produce, within a reasonable time allowed in
        the notice, specified records or documents or records or
        documents of a specified kind, which are within the
        custody or under the control of that person.

                                                                                                    [17/2017]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   80

 (4) The power to require a person to produce any record, document
or information under subsection (2) or (3) includes the power —

(a) to require that person, or any person who is or was an
     officer or employee of that person, to provide an
     explanation of the record, document or information;

(b) if the record, document or information is not produced, to
     require that person to state, to the best of that person’s
     knowledge and belief, where it is; and

       (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
            form, to require the information to be made available to the
            inspector in legible form.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (5) A person required by notice under subsection (3) to produce
written answers to questions or other written information must, if the
notice requires, verify the answers or information by statutory
declaration.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (6) A person who, in response to a notice under subsection (3),
attends for examination before an inspector —

(a) must, if the inspector so requires, take an oath or make an
     affirmation (which may be administered by the inspector)
     to answer truthfully all questions put to the person by the
     inspector; and

       (b) must answer questions put to the person at the
            examination.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (7) Any statement made by a person at an examination before an
inspector must —

(a) be reduced to writing;

(b) be read over to the person;

          (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted in
              a language that the person understands; and

(d) after correction (if necessary) be signed by that person.

                                                                                                 [17/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
81  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

 (8) If an inspector considers it necessary to do so for the purpose of
obtaining evidence of the contravention of any provision of this Act,
the inspector may seize any equipment, record, document,
information or other thing.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (9) An inspector may, at any time after the expiry of the period
specified in the notice mentioned in subsection (3), enter any building
or place where the inspector has reason to believe that any record,
document or information, in respect of which the inspector has given
the notice, may be found, and seize or take extracts or copies of any
such record, document or information.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (10) An inspector is entitled without payment to keep any record,
document or information, or any copy or extract of it, produced to the
inspector under subsection (2) or (3) or obtained under subsection (8)
or (9).

                                                                             [43C

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

Remedial action to rectify deficiencies

 61.—(1) This section applies where, from the report of a
compliance review under section 58 or an investigation under
section 59 or otherwise, the Minister is of the opinion —

       (a) that deficiencies have been identified in the conduct of a
            Town Council’s affairs and that action must be taken to
            address them; or

       (b) that an irregularity has occurred, or is occurring, in the
            administration of a Town Council’s financial affairs.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) The Minister may by order (called in this Part a rectification
order) given in writing to the Town Council, require the Town
Council —

       (a) to take specified remedial action to address the deficiencies
            within a specified period and to report to the Minister, at
            the end of the specified period (called the compliance
            date), on the action taken to give effect to the requirement;
            or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   82

       (b) to take specified action to correct the irregularity or to
            guard against the recurrence of irregularities (or both) at
            the end of the specified period (called the compliance
            date).

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (3) The Minister may, on application by the Town Council
concerned, postpone the compliance date from time to time.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (4) If a Town Council fails to comply with a rectification order by
the compliance date, the Town Council shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 and,
in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $50
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

                                                                             [43D

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

Inspectors of Town Councils

 62.—(1) The Minister may appoint as inspectors of Town
Councils —

       (a) one or more public officers;

       (b) one or more employees of the Board; or

       (c) one or more other individuals who have the suitable
            qualifications and experience to properly exercise the
            powers of inspectors of Town Councils.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) The functions of an inspector of Town Councils are —

       (a) to carry out compliance reviews under this Part; and

       (b) to investigate suspected irregularities in or affecting the
            conduct of a Town Council’s affairs.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (3) An inspector of Town Councils may be accompanied by one or
more police officers, auxiliary police officers and public accountants
to assist the inspector in the discharge of the inspector’s functions.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
83  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

 (4) Every inspector acting under section 58 or 60 is deemed to be a
public servant for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (5) No liability shall be incurred by an inspector as a result of
anything done (including any statement made) or omitted to be done
with reasonable care and in good faith in the course of or in
connection with —

    (a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
         Part; or

    (b) the performance or purported performance of any function
         or duty under this Part.
                                                                         [43E

                                                                                                     [17/2017]

Offences

 63.—(1) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do
anything required of the person by notice under section 58(6) or 60(3)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $50 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) Any person who —

       (a) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any document
            or information which the person has been required by
            notice to produce under section 58(6) or 60(3); or

       (b) in producing any document or information required under
            section 58(6) or 60(3), makes any statement which the
            person knows to be false in a material particular or
            recklessly makes such a statement,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   84

 (3) If any person fails to comply with a notice under section 58(6)
or 60(3), the court may, on the application of an inspector, make such
order as the court thinks fit to secure compliance with such notice,
and any such order may provide that all the costs and expenses of and
incidental to the application must be borne by such person or by any
officer of a company or other association who is responsible for the
failure.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (4) A person is not excused from answering a question or producing
evidential material in response to a notice or requirement made by an
inspector under this Part on the ground that the answer, or the
production of the material, might tend to incriminate the person.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (5) Where a person claims, before answering a question or
producing evidential material that the person is required by an
inspector under this Part to give, that the answer or the production of
evidential material might tend to incriminate the person —

(a) that answer or evidential material;

(b) the giving of the answer or production of evidential
     material; and

          (c) any information, document or thing obtained as a direct or
              indirect consequence of the giving of the answer or the
              production of evidential material,

are not admissible in evidence against that person in any civil
proceedings or any criminal proceedings other than proceedings for
an offence in respect of the falsity of the answer or evidential material
produced.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (6) Subsection (5) applies despite any other written law.
                                                                             [43F

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

Official management of Town Councils

 64.—(1) If the Minister is satisfied —

       (a) that a Town Council has failed to keep or maintain any part
            of the common property of any residential or commercial

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
85  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

    property in the housing estates of the Board within the
    Town of the Town Council in a state of good and
    serviceable repair and in a proper and clean condition; or

    (b) that any duty of a Town Council must be carried out
         urgently in order to remove any danger to the health or
         safety of residents of the housing estates of the Board
         within the Town of the Town Council, and that the Town
         Council refuses or is unable to carry out that duty,

and the Minister is of the opinion that it is inappropriate for the Town
Council to continue without official management, the Minister may,
by notice in the Gazette, place the Town Council under official
management.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) Before placing a Town Council under official management, the
Minister must give at least 7 days’ notice in writing to the chairperson
of the Town Council concerned —

    (a) stating that the Minister intends to place the Town Council
         under official management; and

       (b) specifying the time (not more than 7 days after the date the
            notice is served on the Town Council) within which written
            representations may be made to the Minister by or on
            behalf of the Town Council with respect to the proposed
            official management.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (3) When the Minister places a Town Council under official
management, all members of the Town Council are suspended from
office unless the Minister indicates otherwise, and the Minister must
appoint a suitable person to manage the affairs, business and property
of the Town Council (called in this Part an official manager).

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (4) Any decision of the Minister under subsection (1) is final.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (5) An official manager ceases to manage the affairs, business and
property of the Town Council when the Minister is satisfied that the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   86

reasons for the official manager’s appointment have ceased to exist or
the appointment is earlier revoked by the Minister.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (6) Where by reason of subsection (5), an official manager ceases to
manage the affairs, business and property of a Town Council, the
Minister must without delay cause to be published a notice to that
effect —

(a) in the Gazette; and

(b) in such other manner as will secure adequate publicity for
     that ceasing.
                                                                     [43G

                                                                                                 [17/2017]

Official manager

 65.—(1) An official manager appointed under section 64 for a
Town Council has full power to transact any business of the Town
Council and to do anything else the Town Council could have done
but for the suspension of its members.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) An official manager appointed under section 64 for a Town
Council may act in the official manager’s own name, or in the name
of the Town Council, and despite section 6, may execute a document
under the common seal of the Town Council.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (3) The Minister may at any time fix the terms and conditions of the
appointment of an official manager, including (whether or not the
appointment of the person has terminated) the remuneration to be
paid to the official manager.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (4) The remuneration of an official manager appointed under
section 64 for a Town Council is payable from the Town Council
Fund of the Town Council.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (5) Any decision of the Minister under subsection (3) is final.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (6) No liability shall be incurred by an official manager as a result
of anything done (including any statement made) or omitted to be

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
87  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

done with reasonable care and in good faith in the course of or in
connection with —

    (a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
         Part; or

    (b) the performance or purported performance of any function
         or duty under this Part.
                                                                         [43H

                                                                                                     [17/2017]

                                    PART 7

                   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Recovery of conservancy and service charges from sale of flat

 66.—(1) Where any conservancy and service charges levied in
respect of any flat by a Town Council under section 53 remain unpaid
on the expiry of the period of 90 days after the Town Council has
served on the owner of the flat a written demand for such charges
under section 53(6), the charges, together with any interest accrued
thereon constitute a charge on the flat on the expiry of that period in
favour of the Town Council.

 (2) Upon the constitution of the charge on a flat under
subsection (1), the Town Council has the power of sale and all
other powers relating or incidental thereto to sell and effectually
transfer the title to the flat to any purchaser as if the Town Council is a
registered mortgagee even though the charge is not registered under
the Land Titles Act 1993.

 (3) Any charge on a flat constituted under subsection (1) is subject
to —

       (a) all encumbrances registered or notified under the Land
            Titles Act 1993 in respect of that flat before the date of the
            constitution of the charge;

       (b) all moneys due under the lease of the flat to the Board (on
            its own account or on account of the Central Provident
            Fund Board), whether before, on or after the date of the
            constitution of the charge; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   88

       (c) all moneys due to the Central Provident Fund Board under
            the charge constituted under section 21 or 21B of the
            Central Provident Fund Act 1953, whether before, on or
            after the date of the constitution of the charge.

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), a Town Council may, with the prior
written approval of the Board, by notice of sale to be served or
published in the prescribed manner, declare its intention of selling, on
the expiry of the period of 90 days from the date of the notice of sale,
any flat which is subject to a charge constituted under subsection (1),
and if, on the expiry of that period, any conservancy and service
charges (including any interest thereon) or any part thereof have not
been paid or satisfied, the Town Council may sell that flat.

 (5) A Town Council must not proceed under subsection (4) to sell
any flat in respect of which any conservancy and service charges or
any part thereof are due if there is or are upon the flat and liable to be
seized and sold by the Town Council by enforcement order for seizure
and sale of property movable property belonging to the owner of the
flat of a value estimated by the Town Council to be sufficient to
realise the sum required to satisfy such unpaid charges and costs.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (6) Where a Town Council has sold any flat under subsection (4),
neither the purchaser of the flat nor the Registrar of Titles appointed
under the Land Titles Act 1993 are to be concerned to inquire into the
regularity or validity of the sale or transfer.

 (7) For the purpose of registration of a transfer of any flat sold
under subsection (4), the Registrar of Titles may dispense with the
production of the duplicate lease of the flat or the duplicate subsidiary
certificate of title in respect of the flat, as the case may be.

 (8) The moneys received by a Town Council in exercise of its
power of sale under subsection (4), after discharging all prior
encumbrances, must be held by it in trust to be applied —

(a) firstly, in payment of all costs and expenses properly and
     reasonably incurred by the Town Council as incidental to
     the sale or any attempted sale, or otherwise;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
89  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

    (b) secondly, in payment to the Central Provident Fund Board
         of all moneys secured by its charge constituted under
         section 21 or 21B of the Central Provident Fund Act 1953
         and are mentioned in subsection (3);

    (c) thirdly, in payment to the Board of such moneys due under
        the lease of the flat to the Board as are mentioned in
        subsection (3);

    (d) fourthly, in payment to the Board of all moneys secured by
         its charge on the flat (if any) under section 82 of the
         Housing and Development Act 1959 for unpaid
         improvement contribution, and in payment to the Town
         Council of all moneys secured by its charge on the flat (if
         any), in the order of their priority;

    (e) fifthly, in discharge, equally and without preference, of —

    (i) the conservancy and service charges and interest
        accrued and due to the Town Council at the date of
        sale; and

    (ii) any improvement contribution (including any
         interest and penalty thereon) accrued and due to
         the Town Council at the date of the sale, whether or
         not secured by any charge under section 32;

    (f) sixthly, in discharge of any improvement contribution
        (including any interest and penalty thereon) accrued and
        due to the Board at the date of the sale, which is not secured
        by any charge under section 78 of the Housing and
        Development Act 1959;

    (g) seventhly, in payment of subsequent mortgages and
         charges (if any) in the order of their priority; and

    (h) finally, the residue of such moneys so received must be
         paid to the person who appears from the land‑register kept
         under the Land Titles Act 1993 to be entitled to the flat sold
         or to be authorised to give receipts for the proceeds of the
         sale thereof.

                                                                                                     [23/2005]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   90

 (9) Despite section 80 of the Land Titles Act 1993, where further
conservancy and service charges and interest thereon are due to a
Town Council when a charge on a flat constituted under
subsection (1) is subsisting, the amount of the charges due
(including interest thereon) rank in priority to any other claims on
the flat as if the charges were due at the date of the constitution of that
charge.

(10) Any charge on a flat constituted under subsection (1) —

(a) continues in force until all the conservancy and service
     charges (including any interest thereon) secured by the
     charge have been paid; and

(b) upon payment of the conservancy and service charges
     (including any interest thereon) and any necessary
     incidental expenses to the Town Council before it has
     exercised its powers of sale under subsection (4), is
     discharged and the owner of the flat is entitled to a
     certificate of discharge executed and acknowledged by the
     Town Council as to the receipt of such payment.

 (11) For the purpose of estimating the value of any movable
property belonging to the owner of a flat under subsection (5), a Town
Council may, by its employees or agents, enter upon the flat to carry
out such valuation at any reasonable time after giving notice to any
occupier of the flat.

                                                                               [44

Deduction of arrears of charges from compensation and other
moneys payable by Board

 67. Where any conservancy and service charges are due and remain
unpaid by the owner or tenant of any flat to a Town Council upon the
vesting of the flat in the Board under section 59 or 66 of the Housing
and Development Act 1959 or upon the termination of the tenancy or
lease of the flat, the Board may, on a request in writing by the Town
Council and despite section 67 of that Act —

       (a) deduct such charges (including any interest and penalty
            thereon) remaining unpaid from any compensation, cash

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
91  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

    deposit and any other moneys in respect of the flat payable
    by the Board to the owner or tenant of the flat; and

    (b) subject to the law relating to bankruptcy and all statutory
         charges, encumbrances and moneys due and payable to the
         Board, pay the amount so deducted to the Town Council as
         soon as practicable.
                                                                           [45

Fines to be paid into Town Council Fund

 68. All fines imposed under this Act or any by-law made by a Town
Council, less all reasonable legal costs (whenever incurred) for the
prosecution thereof, and all moneys collected by it under section 72
must be paid into the Town Council Fund.

                                                                               [46

                                                                                                           [23/2005]

Demand for particulars

 69.—(1) A Town Council or any member or employee of a Town
Council or any police officer who reasonably believes that any person
has committed an offence under this Act or any by-law or rules made
under this Act may require the person to provide evidence of the
person’s identity.

 (2) The person mentioned in subsection (1) must thereupon provide
such evidence of the person’s identity as may be required by the
police officer, the Town Council or its member or employee.

 (3) A Town Council may, subject to such conditions as it thinks fit,
delegate to its managing agent or any employee of its managing agent
the power under subsection (1).

 (4) Any power so delegated may be exercised by the agent or
employee mentioned in subsection (3), subject to the production of
his or her authority when requested, in the name and on behalf of the
Town Council.

 (5) A person who refuses to provide any information required of the
person by a Town Council, any member or employee of the Town
Council, any police officer or any person to whom the power under
subsection (1) has been delegated under subsection (3), or who

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   92

wilfully misstates such information, shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

                                                                               [47

Liability of owners of vehicles for parking offences

 70.—(1) When a parking offence is committed within a Town, the
person who, at the time of the commission of the offence, is the owner
of the vehicle in respect of which the offence is committed shall be
guilty of an offence under any by-law made by the Town Council in
all respects as if the person were the actual offender guilty of the
parking offence unless the court is satisfied that the vehicle was at the
relevant time a stolen vehicle or a vehicle illegally taken or used.

 (2) Nothing in this section affects the liability of the actual offender
except that where a penalty has been imposed on or recovered from a
person in relation to any parking offence, no further penalty may be
imposed on or recovered from any other person in relation thereto.

 (3) Despite subsection (1), no owner of a vehicle shall by virtue of
this section be guilty of an offence if the owner of the vehicle —

       (a) within 7 days after a Town Council serves on the owner of
            the vehicle a notice alleging that the owner has been guilty
            of the offence, provides by statutory declaration to the
            Town Council the name and address of the person who was
            in charge of the vehicle at all relevant times relating to the
            parking offence;

       (b) satisfies the Town Council that the owner did not know and
            could not with reasonable diligence have ascertained such
            name and address; or

       (c) satisfies the court that the owner did not know and could
            not with reasonable diligence have ascertained such name
            and address.

 (4) A statutory declaration made under subsection (3)(a), if
produced in any proceedings against the person named therein and
in respect of any parking offence, is prima facie evidence that the
person was in charge of the vehicle at all relevant times relating to the
parking offence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
93  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

 (5) A statutory declaration which relates to more than one parking
offence is not regarded as a statutory declaration under, or for the
purposes of, subsection (3)(a).

(6) In this section —

    “owner”, in relation to a vehicle, includes —

    (a) any person who has the use of the vehicle under a
         hire-purchase agreement but excludes the owner
         under any such agreement;

    (b) the person in whose name the vehicle is registered
         except where the person has sold or otherwise
         disposed of the vehicle and has complied with the
         rules made under the Road Traffic Act 1961
         applicable to him in regard to such sale or disposal;
         and

    (c) in the case of a vehicle in respect of which a general
        licence is issued under section 28 of the Road Traffic
        Act 1961, the person to whom the general licence is
        issued;

    “parking offence” means an offence of parking a vehicle or of
       causing or permitting a vehicle to stand, wait or be parked in
       contravention of any by-law made by a Town Council.

                                                             [48

Personal liability of members, etc., for certain offences

 71.—(1) Where a Town Council commits an offence under
section 24(4) or 61(4), an individual —

       (a) who is the chairperson of, or secretary to, the Town
            Council, or who was purporting to act in any such capacity;
            and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived to effect the commission of
                   the offence;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.   Town Councils Act 1988                                  94

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the offence by the Town Council; or

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the Town Council (or an offence of the
                same type) would be or is being committed, and
                failed to take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop
                the commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the Town Council, and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both and,
in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $50
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) Where a Town Council commits a relevant offence, an
individual —

(a) who is the chairperson of, or secretary to, the Town
     Council, or who was purporting to act in any such capacity;
     and

(b) who —

          (i) consented or connived to effect the commission of
              the offence;

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the offence by the Town Council; or

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the Town Council (or an offence of the
                same type) would be or is being committed, and
                failed to take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop
                the commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the Town Council, and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
95               Town Councils Act 1988                      2020 Ed.

(3) In subsection (2), “relevant offence” means an offence —

    (a) under section 21(8), 25(6), 47(9) or 52(15);

    (b) under the Financial Rules made under section 57; or

       (c) under any rules made under section 82 about the
            governance of Town Councils.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (4) To avoid doubt, subsections (1) and (2) do not affect the liability
of a Town Council for an offence mentioned in that subsection, and
apply whether or not the Town Council is convicted of the offence.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (5) To avoid doubt, this section also does not affect the application
of —

    (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

    (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
         regarding the admissibility of evidence.
                                                                         [48A

                                                                                                     [17/2017]

Composition of offences

 72.—(1) A Town Council may compound any offence under any
by‑law made by it for a purpose mentioned in section 28(1) and which
is prescribed in those by‑laws as a compoundable offence by
collecting from the person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum not exceeding $2,000.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) A public officer authorised by the Minister may compound any
offence under this Act or rules made under this Act that is prescribed
under section 82 as a compoundable offence, by collecting from a
Town Council or other person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the following
amounts:

    (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
         prescribed for the offence;

    (b) $2,000.

                                                             [17/2017]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   96

 (3) On payment by a person to a Town Council or public officer (as
the case may be) of a sum of money under subsection (1) or (2), no
further proceedings are to be taken against that person in respect of
the offence.

                                                                               [49

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

Legal proceedings

 73. Any charges, fees or expenses or any penalties for late payment
of such charges or fees payable to a Town Council under this Act may
be recovered by the Town Council by an action for a debt in any court
of competent authority.

                                                                               [51

                                                                                                           [33/2018]

Protection from personal liability

 74. No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie personally against
any member, officer or employee of a Town Council or other person
acting under the direction of a Town Council for anything which is in
good faith done or intended to be done in the execution or purported
execution of this Act or any other Act.

                                                                               [52

Board’s obligations under existing leases of flats

 75.—(1) On the expiry of the period of 180 days (or such shorter
period as the Minister may determine) after the establishment of a
Town Council for the Town and so long as a Town Council is
established for the Town, the Board as the lessor of the flats in the
residential and commercial property and of the stalls in the market
and food centres within the Town ceases, despite the Housing and
Development Act 1959 and the terms, covenants and conditions in
the leases of those flats or stalls to the contrary, to be liable for the
maintenance and management of the common property of the
residential and commercial property in the housing estates in which
those flats or stalls are situated, including the provision of cleaning
services and the maintenance of mechanical equipment and
installations in the Town, and thereupon the Town Council is liable
for the maintenance and management of that common property.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
97  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

 (2) Upon the establishment of a Town Council for the Town and so
long as a Town Council is established for the Town, except as
otherwise provided in this Act, the terms, covenants and conditions in
the leases of the flats and stalls mentioned in subsection (1) continue
in force.

 (3) The Board as the lessor of the flats or stalls within the Town
mentioned in subsection (1) is entitled to enforce the performance of
the terms, covenants and conditions in the leases as if this Act had not
been enacted.

                                                                               [53

Board’s liability for repairs, etc.

 76. The Board is not liable in respect of any action, claim or
proceedings arising out of any —

       (a) repairs, maintenance, improvements or other works carried
            out by a Town Council or its agents to the common
            property of the residential and commercial property in the
            housing estates within the Town; or

       (b) charges paid to a Town Council by any person under this
            Act to meet the costs of such repairs, maintenance,
            improvements or other works.
                                                                               [54

Handover notices of common property

 77.—(1) This section applies only to and in relation to any part of a
housing estate that is not comprised in any flat and that —

       (a) is in a housing estate in respect of which a temporary
            occupation permit is issued on or after 1 May 2017; or

       (b) is excluded (whether before, on or after 1 May 2017) under
            the definition of “common property” in section 2(1) from
            being regarded as common property —

               (i) for a period;

              (ii) because of the use or description of the part of the
                   housing estate;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   98

          (iii) because of the status or description of the owner of
                the part of the housing estate; or

            (iv) subject to any other condition (whether a condition
                  precedent or a condition subsequent).

                                                                                                         [17/2017]

(2) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), the Board may —

(a) issue a handover notice in respect of any part of a housing
     estate of the Board that is not comprised in any flat and is
     within the area of a Town; and

       (b) give that handover notice to the Town Council whose
            Town area includes that housing estate.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (3) The Town Council to whom a handover notice is given under
this section in respect of any part of a housing estate of the Board
assumes in relation to that part, with effect from the date specified in
the handover notice, the functions of this Act relating to common
property within its Town.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (4) A handover notice may be issued only as follows:

(a) for a part of a housing estate mentioned in
     subsection (1)(a) — after a temporary occupation permit
     is issued in respect of that part of the housing estate;

(b) for a part of a housing estate mentioned in
     subsection (1)(b) — after whichever of the following
     first happens:

          (i) when the specified period for the exclusion described
              in subsection (1)(b)(i) ends;

          (ii) when there is a change in the use or description of the
               part of the housing estate as to render the part no
               longer within any use or description in any exclusion
               described in subsection (1)(b)(ii);

          (iii) when there is a change to the status or description of
                the owner of the part of the housing estate as to
                render the owner not having any status or meeting

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
99  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

    any description in any exclusion described in
    subsection (1)(b)(iii);

             (iv) when the condition (whether a condition precedent
                   or a condition subsequent) subject to which the
                   exclusion described in subsection (1)(b)(iv) is
                   granted is first breached.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (5) Every handover notice issued under this section is irrevocable.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (6) In this section, “temporary occupation permit”, for a building or
part of a building in a housing estate, means —

    (a) a temporary occupation permit granted under the Building
         Control Act 1989 for the building or part of the building; or

    (b) a certificate of statutory completion issued under that Act
         for that building or part of that building where no
         temporary occupation permit is so granted.
                                                                         [54A

                                                                                                     [17/2017]

Relationship between Board and Town Council

 78.—(1) To avoid doubt, any function, power, requirement or duty
conferred on a Town Council by this Act must be performed or
exercised in a way that is consistent with the title and rights of the
Board as owner of the common property within the Town for which
the Town Council is established.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) Despite section 75, where a Town Council is dissolved by order
under section 3, the Board is, upon the dissolution of that Town
Council and pending the establishment of another Town Council for
the Town, responsible and liable, as the owner of the housing estates
within the Town, for the maintenance and management of such
housing estates and is entitled to enforce the performance of the
terms, covenants and conditions in the leases relating to such housing
estates as if this Act had not been enacted.

                                                                               [55

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   100

Public servants for purposes of Penal Code 1871

 79. All members, officers and employees of a Town Council and all
employees of its managing agent are deemed to be public servants for
the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

                                                                               [56

Town Council’s address for service

 80.—(1) Every Town Council must —

       (a) ensure that notice of each of the following is given to the
            Minister:

               (i) an address for the service of notices or documents;

              (ii) a fax number for the service of notices or documents
                   by fax;

             (iii) an email address for the service of notices or
                   documents by email; and

       (b) cause to be constructed and maintained a receptacle
            suitable for the receipt of mail and other documents with
            the name of the Town Council clearly shown on the
            receptacle, at the address in paragraph (a)(i).

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) A Town Council may from time to time change any address or
fax number, as given to the Minister under subsection (1)(a), for the
service of notices or documents on the Town Council.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (3) Where a Town Council has, under subsection (2), decided to
change the address or fax number for the service of notices or
documents on it, the Town Council must, within 7 days after
deciding —

       (a) notify the Minister of the change and the effective date of
            the change; and

       (b) cause to be published (at the Town Council’s cost), before
            the change takes effect, a notice about the new address or
            fax number for service of notices or documents on the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
101  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

     Town Council and the effective date of the change, in a
     manner that will secure adequate publicity for the change.

                                                                     [56A

                                                                                              [17/2017]

Service of documents and notices, etc.

 81.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
            if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
            address or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual; or

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

       (a) by giving it to any partner or other like officer of the
            partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the partnership’s business address;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   102

          (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
              partnership’s business address; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
            address.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), a document permitted or required by
this Act to be served on a body corporate (including a limited liability
partnership but not a Town Council) or an unincorporated association
may be served —

(a) by giving it to the secretary or other like officer of the body
     corporate or unincorporated association, or the limited
     liability partnership’s manager;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the registered office or principal office in Singapore of
     the body corporate or unincorporated association;

          (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the registered
              office or principal office in Singapore of the body
              corporate or unincorporated association; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (5) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
Town Council may be served —

(a) by leaving it with the chairperson of, or secretary to, the
     Town Council or in the receptacle provided by the Town
     Council under section 80(1)(b);

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the Town Council at the last address notified to the
     Minister under section 80(1) or (3);

          (c) by sending it by fax to the last fax number notified to the
              Minister under section 80(1) or (3); or

(d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the Town
     Council notified to the Minister under section 80(1) or (3).

                                                                                                 [17/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
103  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

(6) Service of a document under this section takes effect —

     (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
          successful transmission is received — on the day of
          transmission;

     (b) if the document is sent by email — at the time that the
          email becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to
          whom it is addressed; or

      (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post — 2 days
           after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
           undelivered).

                                                                                                         [17/2017]

(7) This section does not apply to —

     (a) a document to be served in proceedings in court;

     (b) a written demand under section 53(6); or

      (c) a notice of sale under section 34(6) or 66(4).      [17/2017]
(8) In this section —

     “business address” means —

     (a) in the case of an individual — the individual’s usual
          or last known place of business in Singapore; or

     (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
          liability partnership) — the partnership’s principal or
          last known place of business in Singapore;

     “last email address” means —

     (a) the last email address given by the addressee
          concerned to the person giving or serving the
          document as the email address for the service of
          documents under this Act; or

     (b) the last email address of the addressee concerned
          known to the person giving or serving the document;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   104

“residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
   place of residence in Singapore.

                                                                     [56B

                                                                   [17/2017]

Rules

 82.—(1) The Minister may make such rules as the Minister
considers necessary or expedient for giving full effect to the
provisions of this Act and for the due administration thereof and to
prescribe matters necessary or convenient to be prescribed for
carrying out or giving effect to this Act.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (2) In particular, the Minister may make rules under
subsection (1) —

       (a) prescribing model by-laws for the purpose of the
            management, administration, control, use or enjoyment
            of the common property of the residential and commercial
            property in the housing estates of the Board within a Town,
            which may include all or any of the following matters:

               (i) restricting or prohibiting behaviour or activities on
                   any common property;

              (ii) restricting or prohibiting parking of vehicles on any
                   common property;

             (iii) other details of any common property of which the
                   use is restricted;

             (iv) waste disposal;

              (v) safety or security measures;

             (vi) conferring power on a Town Council to store or
                   dispose of, or authorise the disposal of, goods and
                   vehicles left on common property in housing estates
                   within its Town and the passing of title to any goods
                   or vehicles on such disposal;

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

       (b) prescribing, for the purposes of section 21(1)(d), the
            different types of uses of any part of the common property

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
105  Town Councils Act 1988                                   2020 Ed.

     within a Town, or for otherwise enjoying the benefit of any
     improvements by, or services and facilities provided by, a
     Town Council, including for different users or different
     types of common property, improvements, services or
     facilities within a Town, or in different parts of a Town;

     (c) about the governance of Town Councils, including
         requirements for the preparation and submission of
         documents or information in compliance with such
         governance requirements or best practices, and the
         periodic disclosure to the Minister of the level of such
         compliance by Town Councils;

     (d) prescribing a caretaker policy (and requirements for its
          adoption by a Town Council) governing the conduct of the
          Town Council and its officers and employees (including
          prohibiting the making of major policy decisions) during
          the caretaker period that —

     (i) starts on the issue of a writ of election for every
         constituency comprised in the Town for which the
         Town Council is established; and

     (ii) ends on the date that the elected members of a Town
          Council assume office for that Town Council after
          that election;

     (e) providing that any contravention of any provision of these
         rules shall be an offence punishable with a fine not
         exceeding $5,000; and

        (f) providing such saving, transitional and other
            consequential, incidental and supplemental provisions as
            the Minister considers necessary or expedient.

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

 (3) All rules made under this section are to be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

                                                                               [57

                                                                                                           [17/2017]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Town Councils Act 1988                                   106

Saving

 83.—(1) Nothing in this Act is to be construed to affect any
obligation or liability accrued or incurred under a lease for a flat in
any residential or commercial property or for a stall in any market or
food centre of the Board within a Town at any time prior to the
establishment of the Town Council.

 (2) Any cause of action which has arisen between any such owner
or tenant and the Board prior to the establishment of the Town
Council may be continued and enforced as if this Act had not been
enacted.

 (3) Nothing in this Act affects any rights or remedies that the Board
or an owner or tenant of a flat in any residential or commercial
property may have in relation to the flat or the common property, or
any function of the Board, apart from this Act.

                                                                               [58

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                 LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
               TOWN COUNCILS ACT 1988

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 12 of 1988 — Town Councils Act 1988

Bill            : 9/1988

First Reading   : 25 May 1988

Second Reading  : 28 June 1988

Third Reading   : 29 June 1988

Commencement    : 5 August 1988

2. 1989 Revised Edition — Town Councils Act (Chapter 329A)

Operation       : 15 March 1989

3. Act 25 of 1990 — Town Councils (Amendment) Act 1990

Bill            : 24/1990

First Reading   : 4 October 1990

Second and Third Readings : 9 November 1990

Commencement    : 7 December 1990

4. Act 18 of 1992 — Town Councils (Amendment) Act 1992

Bill            : 25/1992

First Reading   : 10 March 1992

Second and Third Readings : 20 March 1992

Commencement    : 1 April 1992

5. Act 37 of 1996 — Town Councils (Amendment) Act 1996

Bill            : 26/1996

First Reading   : 27 August 1996

Second and Third Readings : 10 October 1996

Commencement    : 1 December 1996

6. 1997 Revised Edition — Town Councils Act (Chapter 329A)

Operation       : 30 May 1997

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                         ii

7. Act 6 of 1999 — Town Councils (Amendment) Act 1999

Bill                     : 53/1998

First Reading            : 23 November 1998

Second and Third Readings : 20 January 1999

Commencement             : 8 February 1999

8. 2000 Revised Edition — Town Councils Act (Chapter 329A)

Operation                : 1 July 2000

9. Act 45 of 2004 — Trustees (Amendment) Act 2004
   (Amendments made by section 25(4) read with item (55) of the Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill                     : 43/2004

First Reading            : 21 September 2004

Second and Third Readings : 19 October 2004

Commencement             : 15 December 2004 (section 25(4) read
                               with item (55) of the Schedule)

10. Act 47 of 2004 — Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act
                             2004

     (Amendments made by section 140 read with item (15) of the Fifth Schedule
     to the above Act)

Bill                     : 6/2004

First Reading            : 6 February 2004

Second Reading           : 19 April 2004

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 5 of 2004

Third Reading            : 19 October 2004

Commencement             : 1 April 2005 (section 140 read with
                               item (15) of the Fifth Schedule)

11. Act 23 of 2005 — Town Councils (Amendment) Act 2005

Bill                     : 13/2005

First Reading            : 16 May 2005

Second and Third Readings : 18 July 2005

Commencement             : 15 August 2005

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                      iii

12. Act 34 of 2017 — Jurong Town Corporation (Amendment) Act 2017
     (Amendments made by section 7(3) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 28/2017

First Reading         : 1 August 2017

Second and Third Readings : 11 September 2017

Commencement          : 1 January 2018 (section 7(3))

13. Act 33 of 2018 — Small Claims Tribunals (Amendment) Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 23(8) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 23/2018

First Reading         : 17 May 2018

Second and Third Readings : 9 July 2018

Commencement          : 1 November 2019 (section 23(8))

14. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 157 of the Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 157 of the Schedule)

15. Act 4 of 2021 — Statute Law Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 22(10) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2020

First Reading         : 3 November 2020

Second and Third Readings : 5 January 2021

Commencement          : 1 March 2021 (section 22(10))

16. 2020 Revised Edition — Town Councils Act 1988

Operation             : 31 December 2021

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
               iv

17. G.N. No. S 759/2022 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Rectification of
                                    Acts) (No. 2) Order 2022

Operation      : 31 December 2021

Publication    : 26 September 2022

18. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 214 of the above Act)

Bill           : 18/2021

First Reading  : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement   : 1 April 2022

19. Act 8 of 2023 — Parliamentary Elections (Amendment) Act 2023

Bill           : 2/2023

First Reading  : 6 February 2023

Second and Third Readings : 6 March 2023

Commencement   : 14 June 2024 (Section 47)

20. Act 12 of 2020 — Building Control (Amendment) Act 2020

Bill           : 10/2020

First Reading  : 4 February 2020

Second and Third Readings : 6 March 2020

Commencement   : 1 October 2025

21. Act 19 of 2025 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2025
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 9/2025

First Reading  : 22 September 2025

Second and Third Readings : 15 October 2025

Commencement   : 5 December 2025

22. Act 17 of 2017 — Town Councils (Amendment) Act 2017

Bill           : 9/2017

First Reading  : 6 February 2017

Second and Third Readings : 10 March 2017

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
               v

Commencement   : 1 May 2017 (except section 15(a), (c),
                     (d), (e) and (g))
                     1 June 2026 (section 15(a), (c), (d), (e)
                     and (g))

23. Act 15 of 2026 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2026

Bill           : 12/2026

First Reading  : 7 April 2026

Second and Third Readings : 7 May 2026

Commencement   : 1 July 2026

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
            COMPARATIVE TABLE
         TOWN COUNCILS ACT 1988

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

         2020 Ed.                    2000 Ed.
                   3—(3A)
3—(4)
   (5)                (4)
   (6)                (5)
   (7)                (6)
                      (7) [Deleted by Act 17 of 2017]
—                  9—(9A)
9—(10)                (10)
                      (11)
   (11)               (12)
   (12)               (13) [Deleted by Act 17 of 2017]
   (13)            15A
—                  16
16                 17
17                 17A
18                 18
19                 19
20                    (1A)
21                    (2)
   (2)                (3)
   (3)                (3A)
   (4)                (4)
   (5)                (5)
   (6)                (6)
   (7)                (7)
   (8)
   (9)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
        2020 Ed.  ii        2000 Ed.

22                 20
   (2)                (1A)
   (3)                (1B)
   (4)                (2)
   (5)                (3)
   (6)                (4)
   (7)                (5)

23                 21
24                 21A
25                 21B
26                 22
27                 23

   (2)                (1A)
   (3)                (1B)
   (4)                (2)
28                 24
29                 24A
30                 24B
31                 24C
32                 24D
33                 24E
34                 24F
35                 24G
36                 24H
37                 24I
38                 24J
39                 25
40                 26

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
         2020 Ed.  iii

41                                     2000 Ed.
42                  27
43                  28
44                  29
45                  30
46                  31
47                  32
                    33
   (5)
   (6)                  (4A)
   (7)                  (4B)
   (8)                  (5)
   (9)                  (6)
—                       (6A)
   (10)                 (6B) [Deleted by Act 17 of 2017]
   (11)                 (7)
   (12)                 (8)
—                       (9)
   (13)                 (10) [Deleted by Act 4 of 2021]
   (14)                 (11)
48                      (12)
49                  34
50                  35
51                  36
52                  37
   (14)             38
   (15)                 (13A)
   (16)                 (13B)
53                      (14)
                    39

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                 2020 Ed.  iv
54
55                                            2000 Ed.
56                          40
57                          41
58                          42
59                          43
60                          43A
61                          43B
62                          43C
63                          43D
64                          43E
65                          43F
66                          43G
67                          43H
68                          44
69                          45
70                          46
71                          47
72                          48
—                           48A
73                          49
74                          50 [Repealed by Act 17 of 2017]
75                          51
76                          52
77                          53
78                          54
—                           54A
79                          55

                                (3) [Deleted by Act 17 of 2017]
                            56

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                 2020 Ed.  v
80
81                                            2000 Ed.
82                          56A
83                          56B
—                           57
                            58
                            THE SCHEDULE [Repealed by
                            Act 17 of 2017]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
