THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
         STRAITS SETTLEMENTS AND JOHORE
         TERRITORIAL WATERS (AGREEMENT)
                               ACT 1928

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                2020 Ed.

Straits Settlements and Johore
Territorial Waters (Agreement)

             Act 1928

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
     1.
     2.  Approval of Agreement
         Short title
         The Schedule

An Act to approve an Agreement concluded between His Majesty and
  the Sultan of the State and Territory of Johore.

                                                               [3 August 1928]

  Whereas an Agreement, which is set out in the Schedule to this Act,
has been concluded between His Majesty and the Sultan of the State
and Territory of Johore with respect to the boundary between the
territorial waters of the Settlement of Singapore and those of the said
State and Territory:

  And whereas it is provided by the said Agreement that it shall
remain without force or effect until it has received the approval of
Parliament:

  And whereas it is expedient that the approval of Parliament should
be given to the said Agreement:

  Be it therefore enacted by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by
and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal,
and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the
authority of the same, as follows:

         1

                                                  31.12.2021
   Straits Settlements and Johore

   Territorial Waters (Agreement)

2                      Act 1928    2020 Ed.

Approval of Agreement

 1. The approval of Parliament is hereby given to the said
Agreement.

Short title

 2. This Act may be cited as the Straits Settlements and Johore
Territorial Waters (Agreement) Act 1928.

                              THE SCHEDULE

Agreement made between His Excellency Sir Hugh Charles Clifford, M.C.S.,
Knight Grand Cross of the Most Distinguished Order of Saint Michael and Saint
George, Knight Grand Cross of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire,
Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony of the Straits Settlements, on
behalf of His Britannic Majesty and His Highness Ibrahim, Knight Grand Cross of
the Most Distinguished Order of Saint Michael and Saint George, Knight
Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire, bin Almarhom
Sultan Abu Bakar, Sultan of the State and Territory of Johore:

   Whereas by Article II of the Treaty of the 2nd day of August 1824 made
between the Honourable the English East India Company on the one side and
Their Highnesses the Sultan and Tumungong of Johore on the other. Their said
Highnesses did cede in full sovereignty and property to the said Company, their
heirs and successors for ever, the Island of Singapore together with certain
adjacent seas, straits and islets:

   And whereas His Britannic Majesty is the successor of the Honourable the
English East India Company:

   And whereas His Britannic Majesty in token of the friendship which he bears
towards his Highness Ibrahim bin Almarhom Sultan Abu Bakar, Sultan of the
State and Territory of Johore, is desirous that certain of the said seas, straits and
islets shall be retroceded and shall again form part of the State and Territory of
Johore:
          Straits Settlements and Johore

          Territorial Waters (Agreement)

2020 Ed.  Act 1928                                     3

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

Now, therefore, it is agreed and declared as follows:

          ARTICLE I

  The boundary between the territorial waters of the Settlement of Singapore and
those of the State and Territory of Johore shall, except as hereafter specified in this
Article, be an imaginary line following the centre of the deep-water channel in
Johore Strait, between the mainland of the State and Territory of Johore on the one
side and the Northern Shores of the Islands of Singapore, Pulau Ubin, Pulau
Tekong Kechil, and Pulau Tekong Besar on the other side. Where, if at all, the
channel divides into two portions of equal depth running side by side, the
boundary shall run midway between these two portions. At the Western entrance
of Johore Strait, the boundary, after passing through the centre of the deep-water
channel Eastward of Pulau Merambong, shall proceed seaward, in the general
direction of the axis of this channel produced, until it intersects the 3-mile limit
drawn from the low water mark of the South Coast of Pulau Merambong. At the
Eastern entrance of Johore Strait, the boundary shall be held to pass through the
centre of the deep-water channel between the mainland of Johore, Westward of
Johore Hill, and Pulau Tekong Besar, next through the centre of the deep-water
channel between Johore Shoal and the mainland of Johore, Southward of Johore
Hill, and finally turning Southward, to intersect the 3-mile limit drawn from the
low water mark of the mainland of Johore in a position bearing 192 degrees from
Tanjong Sitapa.

   The boundary as so defined is approximately delineated in red on the map
annexed hereunto and forming part of this Agreement. Should, however, the map,
owing to alterations in the channels, etc., appear at any time to conflict with the
text of this Agreement, the text shall in all cases prevail.

          ARTICLE II

   Subject to the provisions of Article I hereof, all those waters ceded by Their
Highnesses the Sultan and Tumungong of Johore under Treaty of the 2nd of
August 1824 which are within three nautical miles of the mainland of the State and
Territory of Johore measured from low water mark shall be deemed to be within
the Territorial waters of the State and Territory of Johore.

          ARTICLE III

  All islets lying within the Territorial waters of the State and Territory of Johore,
as defined in Articles I and II hereof, which immediately prior to this Agreement
formed part of His Britannic Majesty’s dominions, are hereby ceded in full
sovereignty and property to His Highness the Sultan of the State and Territory of
Johore, his heirs and successors for ever.

                                                       31.12.2021
            Straits Settlements and Johore

            Territorial Waters (Agreement)

4                         Act 1928                     2020 Ed.

            THE SCHEDULE — continued

                          ARTICLE IV

   This Agreement shall remain without force or effect until it has received the
approval of the British Parliament.

   In Witness whereof His Excellency Sir Hugh Charles Clifford, M.C.S., Knight
Grand Cross of the Most Distinguished Order of Saint Michael and Saint George,
Knight Grand Cross of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire, and His
Highness Ibrahim, Knight Grand Cross of the Most Distinguished Order of Saint
Michael and Saint George, Knight Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the
British Empire, bin Almarhom Sultan Abu Bakar have set their respective seals
and signatures.

   Dated at Singapore, this 19th day of October 1927.

   HUGH CLIFFORD, M.C.S.

Governor and Commander-in- . .                  IBRAHIM
Chief
                                           ABDULLAH BIN
Witnesses:                Witnesses:             JAAFAR,

J. D. HALL                (Signed)    Dato’ Mentri Besar, Johore.
J. HUGGINS                             HAJI MOHAMED SAID

                          (Signed)                  BIN
                                           HAJI SULEIMAN,
                                      Captain, Private Secretary
                                           to H. H. the Sultan.
                        LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

              STRAITS SETTLEMENTS AND JOHORE
              TERRITORIAL WATERS (AGREEMENT)

                                  ACT 1928

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. 18 & 19 Geo. V, c. 23 — Straits Settlements and Johore Territorial Waters
                                 (Agreement) Act 1928

       Commencement              : 3 August 1928

       Note: This Act was declared by the Application of English Law Act 1993 to
               apply or continue to apply in Singapore.

2. 1985 Revised Edition — Straits Settlements and Johore Territorial
                                    Waters (Agreement) Act 1928

       Operation                 : 30 March 1987

                              Abbreviations

C.P.              Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.          Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S        Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.              Legislative Assembly

L.N.              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

                  Legislation)

M. Act            Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.             Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.      Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number

                                                                 31.12.2021
