THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                     FOREIGN EMPLOYEE

                   DORMITORIES ACT 2015

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                                                                      2020 Ed.

           Foreign Employee
         Dormitories Act 2015

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Premises to which Act applies
     2.  Purpose of Act
     3.  Interface with other laws
     4.  Appointment of Commissioner, etc., and dormitory inspectors
     5.
     6.

                                        PART 2

                   LICENSING OF FOREIGN EMPLOYEE
                           DORMITORY OPERATORS

 7. Licence needed to operate foreign employee dormitory, etc.
 8. Application for licence to operate foreign employee dormitory
 9. Grant of licence, etc.
10. Validity and renewal of licence, etc.
11. Conditions of licence
12. Modification of conditions of licence
13. Compliance directive
14. Suspension or revocation, etc., of licence
15. Business restriction directive
16. Disqualification from holding licence
17. Restriction on transfer of licence
18. Annual returns of foreign employee dormitory
19. Codes of practice or standards of performance
20. Notice of stoppage of use as foreign employee dormitory
21. Register

                                                   1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Foreign Employee

2020 Ed.  Dormitories Act 2015                                      2

          PART 3

          APPEALS

Section
   22. Appeal to Minister
   23. Designation of persons to hear appeals

                                        PART 4

                                  ENFORCEMENT

24. Powers of entry, etc., for enforcement purpose
25. Power to arrest
26. Offence of providing false information, etc.
27. Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
28. Composition of offences

                                        PART 5

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

29. Foreign employee dormitory deemed to be public place
30. Service of documents
31. Protection from personal liability
32. General exemption
33. Jurisdiction of courts
34. Regulations

An Act to provide for the regulation of operators of dormitories for
  foreign employees and for matters connected with or incidental to
  that.

                                     [1 January 2016: Except section 29 ]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Foreign Employee Dormitories Act 2015.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                Foreign Employee

3               Dormitories Act 2015                         2020 Ed.

Interpretation

   2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

   “boarding premises” means premises (or a complex of premises)
      that —

   (a) provide boarders or lodgers with a principal place of
        residence;

   (b) may have shared facilities (such as a communal
        living room, bathroom, laundry or kitchen) or
        services that are provided to boarders or lodgers, or
        both; and

   (c) have rooms (some or all of which may have private
       kitchen or bathroom facilities) that accommodate one
       or more boarders or lodgers;

   “business restriction directive” means the regulatory action
      mentioned in section 14(2)(b)(iii);

   “code of practice” or “standard of performance” means a code of
      practice or standard of performance issued or approved under
      section 19;

   “Commissioner” means the Commissioner for Foreign
      Employee Dormitories appointed under section 6(1), and
      includes any Deputy Commissioner for Foreign Employee
      Dormitories or Assistant Commissioner for Foreign
      Employee Dormitories delegated under section 6(5) to
      exercise the Commissioner’s powers or duties under this Act;

   “compliance directive” means a directive given under
      section 13(1);

   “dormitory inspector” means —

   (a) the Commissioner;

   (b) any Deputy Commissioner for Foreign Employee
        Dormitories and any Assistant Commissioner for
        Foreign Employee Dormitories; and

   (c) any individual appointed under section 6(3) and
       authorised under section 6(5) or any other provision

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Foreign Employee

2020 Ed.  Dormitories Act 2015                                      4

          in this Act to perform any duty or exercise any power
          under that provision;

“foreign employee” means a foreigner —

          (a) who seeks employment, or is employed to work, in
               Singapore but excludes a self‑employed foreigner; or

          (b) whose employment in Singapore has expired or has
               been terminated (whether or not for justified reasons)
               and is authorised under the Immigration Act 1959 to
               remain in Singapore;

“foreign employee dormitory” has the meaning given by
   section 3(1);

“foreigner” means an individual who is neither a citizen of
   Singapore nor a permanent resident of Singapore;

                                                                       [Act 31 of 2023 wef 31/12/2024]

“licence” means a licence granted under section 9(1)(a)
   authorising a person to operate the boarding premises
   specified in the licence as a foreign employee dormitory;

“licensed operator” means the person to whom a valid licence is
   granted under section 9(1)(a);

“manager”, in relation to boarding premises or a foreign
   employee dormitory, means an individual who is
   responsible for the day‑to‑day control and supervision of
   the operations of the boarding premises or foreign employee
   dormitory;

“modification” and “modify”, in relation to the conditions of a
   licence, include deleting or varying and substituting a
   condition, and adding a condition;

“occupancy agreement”, in relation to boarding premises, means
   an agreement (written or unwritten) —

          (a) to which a proprietor or an operator of the boarding
               premises (or a person acting on behalf of the
               operator) is a party; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
   Foreign Employee

5  Dormitories Act 2015                                      2020 Ed.

   (b) under which a foreign employee is provided one or
        more beds or rooms, or spaces within a room, in the
        boarding premises to occupy as a resident of those
        premises;

   “occupancy load”, for any premises, means the prescribed
      maximum number of individuals permitted by law to
      ordinarily occupy those premises at any one time;

   “operate”, in relation to any boarding premises, means
      managing and maintaining, in the course of a business, the
      boarding premises (whether self‑owned or under lease) as a
      foreign employee dormitory, for residents who may or may
      not be employees of the operator;

   “permanent resident of Singapore” has the meaning given by
      section 2 of the Immigration Act 1959;

                                                                          [Act 31 of 2023 wef 01/12/2025]

   “premises” means a building or structure (whether permanent or
      temporary) or part of such a building or structure, and
      includes any immediately adjoining space or land necessary
      for access to, or the enjoyment of residents of, the building or
      structure;

   “proprietor”, in relation to any premises that are leased or are
      subject to a tenancy or licence to occupy, includes the owner
      of the premises who is the lessor or grantor of the licence to
      occupy;

   “public authority” means a body established or constituted by or
      under a public Act to perform or discharge a public function;

   “Register” means the register of licensed operators of foreign
      employee dormitories kept under section 21;

   “relative”, in relation to an individual, includes any of the
      following individuals:

   (a) the spouse of the individual;

   (b) a parent, step‑parent, son, daughter, stepson,
        stepdaughter, grandparent, grandchild, brother,
        sister, stepbrother, stepsister, uncle, aunt, niece or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Foreign Employee

2020 Ed.  Dormitories Act 2015                                      6

          nephew (whether by blood, marriage or adoption) of
          the individual;

          (c) a guardian or ward of the individual;

“resident”, in relation to boarding premises (whether or not a
   foreign employee dormitory), means any individual who
   occupies or enjoys a right to occupy one or more beds or
   rooms, or spaces within a room, in those premises as the
   individual’s main or only residence in Singapore, and
   includes any resident who is a proprietor or manager of
   those premises or a relative of the proprietor or manager.

 (2) For the purposes of the definition of “boarding premises” in
subsection (1), the Commissioner may determine whether buildings,
structures or facilities are to be regarded as a single complex of
premises.

Premises to which Act applies

 3.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), in this Act, “foreign employee
dormitory” means any boarding premises that —

       (a) provide the threshold number of beds or higher for use by
            residents who are foreign employees;

       (b) provide accommodation to the threshold number of
            residents who are foreign employees, or higher; or

       (c) have the prescribed occupancy load and provide
            accommodation substantially to foreign employees.

 (2) However, this Act does not apply to —

       (a) premises that are used as a hotel, an inn, a hostel or a bed
            and breakfast accommodation;

       (b) a serviced apartment, being a building or part of a building
            that is used to provide self‑contained tourist or visitor
            accommodation that is regularly cleaned by or on behalf of
            the proprietor or manager;

       (c) premises for the reception, lodging and care of aged or
            disabled persons, or persons suffering or convalescing
            from any sickness, injury or infirmity, including but not

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                 Foreign Employee

7                Dormitories Act 2015                        2020 Ed.

   limited to a convalescent home or nursing home, but
   excluding a sick bay or similar facility within any boarding
   premises;

   (d) a student hostel or hall of residence for the accommodation
        of students;

   (e) a house;

   (f) a self‑contained residence that is a flat or an apartment
       (consisting of a suite of rooms) forming a portion of a
       building;

   (g) any prison where an individual is incarcerated to serve a
        sentence of imprisonment, any other place where a
        prisoner may serve his or her sentence of imprisonment
        outside of a prison, or premises for the detention of
        individuals serving orders of detention under any written
        law, whether or not for their rehabilitation or safety;

   (h) any vessel used as boarding premises for employees in
        connection with their work or employment on or relating to
        the vessel;

   (i) premises used for crisis accommodation provided by or on
       behalf of the Government or a public authority; and

   (j) any boarding premises specified or described by the
       Minister, by order in the Gazette, as not to be treated as
       a foreign employee dormitory.

 (3) In this section, “threshold number” means 1,000 or any lower
number that the Minister may, by notification in the Gazette,
prescribe in substitution.

 (4) Any notification made under subsection (3) prescribing a lower
threshold number in substitution may contain any saving, transitional,
incidental or consequential provisions that the Minister considers
necessary or proper.

 (5) Every order and notification made under subsections (2)(j) and
(3), respectively, must be presented to Parliament as soon as possible
after publication in the Gazette.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                Foreign Employee

2020 Ed.        Dormitories Act 2015                                8

Purpose of Act

 4. The purpose of this Act is to provide a regulatory framework for
the provision of facilities and amenities, and the delivery of services,
to residents of foreign employee dormitories who are foreign
employees by —

(a) providing for the licensing of operators of foreign
     employee dormitories;

(b) providing for certain accommodation standards to be
     observed with respect to the accommodation of residents
     of foreign employee dormitories and for the appropriate
     mechanisms for the enforcement of those standards; and

          (c) promoting the sustainability of, and continuous
              improvements in, the provision of services at foreign
              employee dormitories.

Interface with other laws
 5. Nothing in this Act derogates from any requirement imposed by

or under —
       (a) the Building Control Act 1989;
       (b) the Control of Vectors and Pesticides Act 1998;
       (c) the Environmental Public Health Act 1987;
       (d) the Fire Safety Act 1993;
       (e) the Planning Act 1998; or
        (f) any other prescribed written law with respect to the use of
            premises as, or the provision of services to residents of,
            foreign employee dormitories.

Appointment of Commissioner, etc., and dormitory inspectors

 6.—(1) The Minister may in writing appoint a public officer as the
Commissioner for Foreign Employee Dormitories who is responsible
for the administration of this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
   Foreign Employee

9  Dormitories Act 2015                                      2020 Ed.

 (2) The Minister may also appoint public officers to be Deputy
Commissioners for Foreign Employee Dormitories and Assistant
Commissioners for Foreign Employee Dormitories.

 (3) The Commissioner may appoint as dormitory inspectors any of
the following persons with suitable qualifications and experience to
properly exercise the powers of a dormitory inspector:

   (a) a public officer;

   (b) an employee of any public authority;

   (c) any individual who is not a public officer or an employee
       mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b).

 (4) The Commissioner is to issue, or cause to be issued, to each
dormitory inspector an identification card, which must be carried at
all times by the dormitory inspector when exercising powers under
this Act.

 (5) Subject to subsection (6), the Commissioner may authorise, by
delegation, the exercise of all or any of the powers conferred or duties
imposed upon the Commissioner by or under this Act to a Deputy
Commissioner for Foreign Employee Dormitories, an Assistant
Commissioner for Foreign Employee Dormitories or a dormitory
inspector, except the power of delegation under this subsection.

 (6) Any delegation under subsection (5) may be general or in a
particular case and may be subject to any conditions or limitations set
out in this Act or that the Commissioner may specify.

 (7) The Commissioner, every Deputy Commissioner for Foreign
Employee Dormitories, every Assistant Commissioner for Foreign
Employee Dormitories and every dormitory inspector is deemed to be
a public servant for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Foreign Employee

2020 Ed.  Dormitories Act 2015                                      10

          PART 2

          LICENSING OF FOREIGN EMPLOYEE
                 DORMITORY OPERATORS

Licence needed to operate foreign employee dormitory, etc.

 7.—(1) Unless exempted under section 32, a person must not
operate any boarding premises as a foreign employee dormitory
except under the authority of a valid licence for those premises.

 (2) Unless exempted under section 32, a proprietor of boarding
premises must not use (or permit the use of) the premises as a foreign
employee dormitory unless those premises are used as such by a
licensed operator holding a valid licence relating to those premises.

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) to a fine not exceeding $500,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 2 years or to both; and

(b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
     not exceeding $1 million or to imprisonment for a term not
     exceeding 4 years or to both.

 (4) It is a defence in proceedings for an offence under subsection (3)
for contravening subsection (2) if the proprietor of boarding premises
satisfies the court, on a balance of probabilities, that the proprietor did
not know, and could not reasonably have been expected to know, that
those premises were being used as a foreign employee dormitory
otherwise than by the holder of a valid licence relating to those
premises.

(5) An offence under subsection (1) or (2) is an arrestable offence.

 (6) To avoid doubt, nothing in subsection (2) affects the law relating
to abetment of offences.

Application for licence to operate foreign employee dormitory

 8.—(1) An application for a licence is to be made to the
Commissioner in such form and manner as the Commissioner may
determine, and must be accompanied by an application fee (if
prescribed).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Foreign Employee

11  Dormitories Act 2015                                      2020 Ed.

 (2) An application for a licence to operate any boarding premises as
a foreign employee dormitory must state —

    (a) the name and the residential or business address of each
         proprietor of the premises;

    (b) the name (if any) and the address of the premises;

    (c) the number of residents or prospective residents of the
        foreign employee dormitory who are foreign employees;

    (d) the total number of beds provided as sleeping
         accommodation for those residents or prospective
         residents;

    (e) whether the written permission or authorisation required
        by the Planning Act 1998 for the development of the
        premises has been granted or deemed granted;

    (f) the identity of and other particulars about the individual
        who is to be the manager of the foreign employee
        dormitory;

    (g) the prescribed particulars and information; and

    (h) any other particulars and information that the
         Commissioner may require in any particular case.

 (3) If the Commissioner receives an application for a licence for
any boarding premises, the Commissioner may carry out, or arrange
to be carried out by dormitory inspectors, any investigations and
inquiries in relation to the application that the Commissioner
considers necessary for a proper consideration of the application.

 (4) A dormitory inspector may, for the purpose of making an
investigation or inquiry relating to an application for a licence to
operate boarding premises as a foreign employee dormitory —

    (a) at any reasonable time;

    (b) after declaring his or her office and after producing his or
         her identification card on demand being made; and

    (c) with any assistants that may reasonably be required,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Foreign Employee

2020 Ed.  Dormitories Act 2015                                      12

enter those premises and exercise any powers mentioned in
subsection (5).

 (5) The powers for the purposes of an investigation or inquiry under
subsection (4) are —

(a) to inspect the premises and any equipment, vehicle or other
     thing at the premises;

(b) to photograph or film, or make audio recordings or make
     sketches of, any part of the premises or anything at the
     premises;

          (c) to inspect and make copies of, or take extracts from
              (without fee or reward) any document kept at the premises;

(d) to take any document or any other thing at the premises;
     and

          (e) to ask any individual at the premises —

          (i) to answer a question to the best of that person’s
              knowledge, information and belief; or

          (ii) to take reasonable steps to provide information or
               produce a document.

 (6) A power under subsection (5)(a), (b), (c) or (d) is limited to a
document or thing that is used or likely to be used in the management
or operation of the premises as a foreign employee dormitory.

(7) Without limiting subsection (5) —

(a) a dormitory inspector exercising functions under that
     subsection may be accompanied by —

          (i) one or more police officers; or

          (ii) one or more medical practitioners who may inspect
               the premises and observe, examine and speak with
               any person apparently residing at the premises; and

(b) a dormitory inspector, in exercising his or her power under
     subsection (5)(a), may also open any ground and remove
     any flooring and take any measures that may be necessary

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Foreign Employee

13  Dormitories Act 2015                                      2020 Ed.

    to ascertain the character and condition of the premises and
    of any pipe, sewer, drain, wire or fitting.

Grant of licence, etc.

 9.—(1) After considering any application for a licence, including
the results of any investigation and inquiry under section 8(3), the
Commissioner may —

       (a) on payment of a licence fee (if prescribed), grant the
            licence; or

       (b) refuse to grant the licence.

 (2) In determining whether an applicant should be granted a licence
under subsection (1), the Commissioner is to have regard to, and give
such weight as the Commissioner considers appropriate to, all of the
following matters:

       (a) whether the applicant is a suitable person to be involved in
            the management or operation of a foreign employee
            dormitory and, where necessary, whether the members of
            the board of directors or committee or board of trustees or
            other governing body of an applicant which is a body
            corporate, are also similarly suitable;

       (b) whether the applicant does not have (or is unlikely to have)
            the financial capacity to operate the boarding premises as a
            foreign employee dormitory;

       (c) whether the boarding premises are fit to be used as a
            foreign employee dormitory for reasons connected with the
            site, construction, accommodation, staffing or equipment,
            and with building safety, fire safety and public health and
            sanitation requirements prescribed by or under this Act or
            any other written law;

       (d) whether the applicant, any associate of the applicant, or
            where the applicant is a body corporate, any member of the
            board of directors or committee or board of trustees or
            other governing body of the body corporate —

               (i) is disqualified by section 16 or the regulations under
                   section 34 from holding a licence; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Foreign Employee

2020 Ed.  Dormitories Act 2015                                      14

          (ii) has been convicted of an offence under this Act;

          (e) whether it is otherwise contrary to the public interest for
              the licence to be granted to the applicant.

 (3) To avoid doubt, the Commissioner is not confined to
consideration of the matters specified in subsection (2) and may
take into account such other matters and evidence as may be relevant.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (2)(d), a person is an associate of
another if the person has a relationship with the other in a manner
prescribed.

Validity and renewal of licence, etc.

 10.—(1) Every licence granted under this Act is to be in a form that
the Commissioner may determine.

 (2) Every licence granted or renewed under this Act continues in
force for such period as may be specified in the licence (not
exceeding 3 years), unless it is earlier revoked or suspended under
section 14 or earlier terminated under section 20.

 (3) The Commissioner may, on the application of a licensed
operator to renew the licensed operator’s licence —

       (a) grant a renewal of the licence on payment of a renewal fee
            or late renewal fee (if prescribed) with or without adding
            to, deleting from or varying conditions of the licence; or

       (b) refuse to renew the licence.

 (4) An application to renew a licence must be made no later than
3 months before the date of expiry of the licence (or any longer period
that may be prescribed in substitution), unless otherwise allowed by
the Commissioner in any particular case, which is to be treated as a
late renewal application.

 (5) Sections 8 and 9 apply, with the necessary modifications, to
every application to renew a licence as if the application is for a grant
of the licence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                      Foreign Employee

15                    Dormitories Act 2015                    2020 Ed.

(6) To avoid doubt —

    (a) a licence does not cease only by reason that the boarding
         premises to which it relates stops being a foreign employee
         dormitory; and

    (b) section 12 does not apply to or in relation to granting a
         renewal of a licence with additional, deleted or varied
         conditions of the licence.

Conditions of licence

 11.—(1) In granting a licence to any person to operate any boarding
premises as a foreign employee dormitory, the Commissioner may
impose any conditions that the Commissioner considers requisite or
expedient having regard to the purposes of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), a licence to operate any
boarding premises as a foreign employee dormitory may include
conditions requiring the licensed operator concerned —

       (a) to meet all the following standards prescribed, or specified
            in the licence insofar as they are not prescribed:

               (i) standards for facilities and services provided to
                   residents including, but not limited to, standards for
                   the maintenance, cleanliness, water supply,
                   sanitation and hygiene of those premises and
                   standards concerning the physical and mental
                   welfare, social activities, personal protection and
                   meals of foreign employees who are resident;

              (ii) standards for accommodation provided to residents
                   including, but not limited to, standards concerning
                   bedrooms, bathrooms and other rooms or spaces
                   within rooms that are occupied or used by residents;

             (iii) standards to prevent overcrowding;

       (b) to prepare to deal with any public emergency;

       (c) to furnish to the Commissioner financial information
            including accounts in respect of such period and on such
            basis as may be specified;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Foreign Employee

2020 Ed.  Dormitories Act 2015                                      16

(d) to furnish persons specified in the licence or the
     Commissioner, in such manner and at such times as may
     be similarly specified, with such information as appears to
     the Commissioner to be requisite or expedient for the
     purpose of facilitating the exercise by those persons or the
     Commissioner of the functions or duties assigned to them
     or as may be reasonably required for that purpose; and

          (e) to provide or further provide a performance bond,
              guarantee or other form of security on such terms and
              conditions as the Commissioner may determine, of such
              amount as the Commissioner considers appropriate.

 (3) A licensed operator who contravenes or fails to comply with a
condition of the licensed operator’s licence shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months, or to
both, for each condition that is contravened or not complied with.

Modification of conditions of licence

 12.—(1) Subject to this section, it is lawful for the Commissioner to
modify the conditions of a licence without compensating the licensed
operator concerned.

 (2) Before modifying any conditions of a licence, the
Commissioner must, unless subsection (5) applies, give notice to
the licensed operator holding that licence —

       (a) stating that the Commissioner proposes to make the
            modification in the manner as specified in the notice; and

       (b) specifying the time (being at least 14 days from the date of
            service of notice on the licensed operator) within which the
            licensed operator may make written representations to the
            Commissioner with respect to the proposed modification.

 (3) Upon receiving any written representation mentioned in
subsection (2)(b), the Commissioner must consider that
representation and may —

       (a) reject the representation;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
             Foreign Employee

17           Dormitories Act 2015                             2020 Ed.

    (b) amend the proposed modification in any manner as the
         Commissioner thinks fit having regard to the
         representation; or

    (c) withdraw the proposed modification and reinstate the
        licence condition without modification.

(4) Where —

    (a) the Commissioner rejects any written representation under
         subsection (3)(a);

    (b) the Commissioner amends any proposed modification
         under subsection (3)(b); or

    (c) no written representation is received by the Commissioner
        within the time specified in subsection (2)(b), or any
        written representation made under that subsection is
        subsequently withdrawn, and the licensed operator has
        not given immediate effect to the modification,

the Commissioner is to issue a written direction to the licensed
operator in question requiring the licensed operator, within the time
specified by the Commissioner, to give effect to the modification as
specified in the notice under subsection (2) or as amended by the
Commissioner under subsection (3), as the case may be.

 (5) However, where the Commissioner considers that it is
impracticable or undesirable to give notice under subsection (2)
before modifying the conditions of a particular licence, in the
circumstances of the particular case because of danger or risk to —

    (a) the security and good order within the foreign employee
         dormitory; or

    (b) the safety and health of the residents of the foreign
         employee dormitory,

the Commissioner may, without compensating the licensed operator
concerned, and by giving notice to that licensed operator, modify the
conditions of the particular licence with immediate effect.

 (6) The licensed operator whose licence conditions have been
modified with immediate effect under subsection (5) may, within

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Foreign Employee

2020 Ed.  Dormitories Act 2015                                      18

7 days after the Commissioner has given notice under that subsection,
apply to the Commissioner to review his or her decision.

 (7) On reviewing his or her decision under subsection (6), the
Commissioner may —

(a) confirm his or her decision; or

(b) delete or vary the modified licence condition, or reinstate
     the licence condition without modification, with effect
     from the date specified, without compensating the licensed
     operator concerned,

and there is to be no further review.

 (8) An application to review the Commissioner’s decision does not
affect the operation of the decision under subsection (5) or prevent the
taking of action to implement that decision, and unless otherwise
allowed by the Commissioner, the decision to be reviewed must be
complied with unless the determination of the review indicates
otherwise.

Compliance directive

 13.—(1) The Commissioner may (without compensation) give a
compliance directive if the Commissioner —

       (a) considers that the duties imposed by or under this Act in
            connection with the management of the business of
            operating boarding premises as a foreign employee
            dormitory, or the operations of a foreign employee
            dormitory, are being carried out in a careless or
            incompetent manner;

       (b) is satisfied that a licensed operator has contravened or
            failed to comply with any condition of the licensed
            operator’s licence, or any code of practice or standard of
            performance applicable to the licensed operator, and that
            the contravention or non‑compliance may be rectified; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Foreign Employee

19  Dormitories Act 2015                                      2020 Ed.

    (c) has reasonable grounds to believe —

    (i) that there is a serious and imminent threat or risk to
        the safety and health of the residents of any boarding
        premises specified in a licence; or

    (ii) that the occurrence within or outside Singapore of
         any civil unrest, hostilities, war, election or other
         event (whether or not of a similar kind) may occasion
         disorder within any boarding premises specified in a
         licence, or cause feelings of ill will or hostility
         between, by or with such residents,

    (c) and that a compliance directive is appropriate or requisite
        to avoid any actual or imminent occurrence that endangers
        the safety or health of those residents, to prevent disorder
        or preserve the safety of those residents, or to avoid serious
        disruptions to the community in the vicinity of those
        boarding premises, as the case may be.

 (2) A compliance directive may be given to either or both the
following:

    (a) a licensed operator in respect of any boarding premises
         specified in the licensed operator’s licence;

    (b) the proprietor of the boarding premises operated as a
         foreign employee dormitory by a licensed operator where
         the Commissioner receives a statutory declaration from the
         licensed operator under subsection (7) and is satisfied that
         compliance by the licensed operator with the compliance
         directive requires the permission or other cooperation of
         that proprietor.

(3) A compliance directive —

    (a) may require the licensed operator or proprietor concerned
         (according to the circumstances of the case) to do, or to
         refrain from doing, such things as are specified or
         described in the directive;

    (b) is to take effect at such time, being the earliest practicable
         time, as is determined by or under that directive; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Foreign Employee

2020 Ed.  Dormitories Act 2015                                      20

          (c) may be revoked at any time by the Commissioner.

(4) Without limiting subsection (3)(a), a compliance directive —

(a) may include the measures to be taken to remedy any
     contravention or non‑compliance to which the directive
     relates, or to otherwise comply with the directive;

(b) may offer the licensed operator or proprietor to whom the
     directive is given a choice of ways in which to remedy the
     contravention or non‑compliance or to comply with the
     directive;

          (c) may order the licensed operator or proprietor to stop the
              boarding premises concerned from being used as a foreign
              employee dormitory for a period not exceeding 3 months in
              order to deal with a serious and imminent threat or risk to
              the safety and health of the residents of those boarding
              premises; and

(d) where the circumstances in subsection (1)(c) apply, may
     order the licensed operator to check or control the
     movement of residents in those boarding premises,
     including restricting entry to and exit from those premises.

 (5) Every licensed operator or proprietor of a foreign employee
dormitory must comply with every compliance directive given to the
licensed operator or proprietor (as the case may be) as soon as it takes
effect.

 (6) Without affecting the right of the Commissioner to exercise the
powers under subsection (8) —

(a) the licensed operator of a foreign employee dormitory
     who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes or fails to
     comply with a requirement imposed by a compliance
     directive given to the licensed operator (whether or not the
     same directive is also given to a proprietor); or

(b) the proprietor of a foreign employee dormitory who,
     without reasonable excuse, contravenes or fails to comply
     with a requirement imposed by a compliance directive

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Foreign Employee

21  Dormitories Act 2015                                      2020 Ed.

    given to the proprietor (whether or not the same directive is
    also given to a licensed operator),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (7) A licensed operator given a compliance directive to demolish,
renovate or otherwise alter any part of the premises specified in the
licence of the licensed operator may, within 7 days after receiving the
directive, provide the Commissioner a statutory declaration stating —

    (a) that by reason of any arrangements (by contract or
         otherwise) with the proprietor of the boarding premises
         operated as a foreign employee dormitory, the licensed
         operator is not entitled to do, or is to refrain from doing,
         such things as are specified or described in the compliance
         directive, and describing those arrangements; and

    (b) the name and address of the proprietor.

 (8) If a compliance directive is not complied with to the
Commissioner’s satisfaction, the Commissioner may carry out or
cause to be carried out all or any of the repairs, work or alteration
specified in that directive, and recover (as a debt due to the
Government) all expenses reasonably incurred by him or her in the
exercise of powers under this subsection from the licensed operator or
the proprietor of a foreign employee dormitory in default.

 (9) It is not necessary to publish any compliance directive given
under this section in the Gazette, or for the Commissioner to provide a
licensed operator or proprietor reasonable opportunity to be heard
before giving the licensed operator or proprietor a compliance
directive.

Suspension or revocation, etc., of licence

 14.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), if the Commissioner is satisfied
that —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Foreign Employee

2020 Ed.  Dormitories Act 2015                                        22

(a) a licensed operator is contravening or not complying with,
     or has contravened or failed to comply with —

          (i) any of the conditions of the licence or any code of
              practice or standard of performance applicable to the
              licensed operator; or

          (ii) any provision of this Act applicable to the licensed
               operator,

(a) whether or not the licensed operator has been convicted of
     an offence for the contravention or non‑compliance;

(b) the continued use of the boarding premises as a foreign
     employee dormitory under the licence would constitute an
     unacceptable risk to the safety, welfare or wellbeing of
     residents at those premises;

          (c) the licensed operator has not complied with any
              compliance directive or business restriction directive,
              whether or not the licensed operator has been convicted
              of an offence under section 13(6) or 15(3), as the case may
              be;

(d) the licensed operator has gone or is likely to go into
     compulsory or voluntary liquidation other than for the
     purpose of amalgamation or reconstruction;

          (e) the licensed operator has made any assignment to, or
              composition with, any creditor of the licensed operator; or

          (f) the public interest or security of Singapore requires,

the Commissioner may take any regulatory action described in
subsection (2).

 (2) The regulatory actions that the Commissioner may take against
a licensed operator are —

(a) revoke (without compensation) the licensed operator’s
     licence, with or without forfeiting any performance bond,
     guarantee or other form of security furnished under
     paragraph (b)(iv) or section 11(2)(e); or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Foreign Employee

23  Dormitories Act 2015                                      2020 Ed.

    (b) in lieu of revoking the licence, any one or more (without
         compensation) of the following:

    (i) issue a letter of censure to the licensed operator;

    (ii) modify the conditions of the licensed operator’s
         licence;

    (iii) give a business restriction directive to the licensed
          operator;

    (iv) require the licensed operator to furnish a
         performance bond, guarantee or other form of
         security, or an additional performance bond,
         guarantee or other form of security;

    (v) forfeit the whole or part of any performance bond,
         guarantee or other form of security furnished under
         sub‑paragraph (iv) or section 11(2)(e);

    (vi) suspend (for not more than 6 months) the licensed
         operator’s licence.

 (3) Before exercising any powers under this section, the
Commissioner must give written notice to the licensed operator
concerned —

    (a) stating that the Commissioner intends to take regulatory
         action against the licensed operator under this section;

    (b) specifying the type of action the Commissioner proposes to
         take, and each instance of non‑compliance that is the
         subject of the action; and

    (c) specifying the time (being at least 14 days after the date of
        service of notice on the licensed operator) within which
        written representations may be made to the Commissioner
        with respect to the proposed action.

(4) The Commissioner may —

    (a) after considering any written representation made in
         accordance with subsection (3); or

    (b) after the time delimited under subsection (3)(c) lapses if no
         representation is so made,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Foreign Employee

2020 Ed.  Dormitories Act 2015                                      24

decide to take the regulatory action in subsection (2) that the
Commissioner considers appropriate.

 (5) Where the Commissioner has made any decision under
subsection (4) against any licensed operator, the Commissioner
must serve on the licensed operator concerned a notice of his or her
decision.

 (6) Subject to section 22(7), a decision to revoke a licence, or to
impose a regulatory action in subsection (2)(b) that is specified in the
notice given under subsection (5), is to take effect from the date on
which that notice is given, or on any other date that may be specified
in the notice.

 (7) The revocation or suspension of any licence does not prejudice
the enforcement by any person of any right or claim against the
licensed operator or former licensed operator concerned, or by the
licensed operator or former licensed operator of any right or claim
against any person.

 (8) In any proceedings under this section in relation to the
conviction of a licensed operator for a criminal offence, the
Commissioner is to accept the licensed operator’s conviction as
final and conclusive.

Business restriction directive

 15.—(1) A business restriction directive may include a direction to
a licensed operator to do one or more of the following:

       (a) not to enter into an occupancy agreement for the purpose of
            any foreign employee becoming a new resident of the
            boarding premises specified in the licensed operator’s
            licence;

       (b) not to enter into, or renew or extend, an occupancy
            agreement that enables a foreign employee to continue as a
            resident of the boarding premises specified in the licensed
            operator’s licence;

       (c) not to enter into, or renew or extend, an occupancy
            agreement mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) except in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Foreign Employee

25  Dormitories Act 2015                                      2020 Ed.

    accordance with such terms as the Commissioner may
    specify;

    (d) not to accept anyone as a new resident of the boarding
         premises specified in the licensed operator’s licence;

    (e) not to allow anyone to continue as a resident of the
        boarding premises specified in the licensed operator’s
        licence if the occupancy agreement for that individual
        expires or lapses;

    (f) to inform the proprietor of the boarding premises specified
        in the licensed operator’s licence of any direction in
        paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) given to the licensed
        operator, where the licensed operator is not also the
        proprietor.

 (2) Any purported entry, renewal or extension of an occupancy
agreement in contravention of a business restriction directive is void
and of no effect.

 (3) A licensed operator that, without reasonable excuse,
contravenes or fails to comply with a requirement imposed by a
business restriction directive shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Disqualification from holding licence

 16.—(1) Where a licence to operate boarding premises as a foreign
employee dormitory is revoked under section 14, the person that was
the holder of that licence is also disqualified, for such period as may
be specified by the Commissioner —

       (a) from holding a licence for the same premises or such other
            premises as the Commissioner may specify in the order;
            and

       (b) from being a manager of those premises as a foreign
            employee dormitory or of any other foreign employee
            dormitory.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Foreign Employee

2020 Ed.  Dormitories Act 2015                                      26

 (2) Any licence obtained by a person while disqualified by an order
of the Commissioner under this section from obtaining such a licence
is of no effect.

Restriction on transfer of licence

 17.—(1) A licence must not be transferred or assigned to any
person without the prior written consent of the Commissioner.

 (2) Any purported transfer or assignment of a licence in
contravention of this section is void and of no effect.

 (3) Any consent under subsection (1) may be given subject to
compliance with any conditions that the Commissioner thinks fit to
impose, which may, subject to section 12, include conditions
modifying, or requiring or otherwise providing for the making of
modifications to, the conditions of the licence.

Annual returns of foreign employee dormitory

 18.—(1) A licensed operator must, within the prescribed period
after the end of the annual reporting period for the boarding premises
specified in the licensed operator’s licence, give notice to the
Commissioner of any changes in any of the particulars mentioned in
section 8(2) as at the end of that reporting period.

 (2) In subsection (1), “annual reporting period” for boarding
premises specified in a licence, is the period of 12 months starting
on the date the licence for those premises was granted or the last
anniversary of that date, whichever is the later.

 (3) However, nothing in subsection (1) prevents any condition
being imposed on a licence requiring the giving of particulars to the
Commissioner for the purposes of this Act on a more frequent basis
than annually.

 (4) A licensed operator that contravenes subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Foreign Employee

27  Dormitories Act 2015                                      2020 Ed.

Codes of practice or standards of performance

19.—(1) The Commissioner may —

    (a) issue one or more codes of practice or standards of
         performance applicable to licensed operators;

    (b) approve as a code of practice or standard of performance
         applicable to licensed operators any document prepared by
         a person other than the Commissioner if the Commissioner
         considers the document as suitable for this purpose; or

    (c) amend or revoke any code of practice or standard of
        performance issued under paragraph (a) or approved under
        paragraph (b),

with respect to all or any of the following:

    (d) the management and operations of boarding premises as a
         foreign employee dormitory;

    (e) the provision of services and facilities in boarding
        premises operated as a foreign employee dormitory;

    (f) the quality of any aspect of such services and facilities.

 (2) A code of practice or standard of performance may, in
particular, specify the duties and obligations of any licensed
operator in relation to the licensed operator’s business operation
insofar as it relates to the provision of boarding premises as a foreign
employee dormitory in Singapore.

 (3) If any provision in any code of practice or standard of
performance is inconsistent with any provision of this Act, that
provision, to the extent of the inconsistency —

    (a) is to have effect subject to the provisions of this Act; and

    (b) having regard to the provisions of this Act, is not to have
         effect.

 (4) Where a code of practice or standard of performance is issued,
approved, amended or revoked by the Commissioner under
subsection (1), the Commissioner must —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Foreign Employee

2020 Ed.  Dormitories Act 2015                                      28

(a) publish a notice of the issue, approval, amendment or
     revocation (as the case may be) of the code of practice or
     standard of performance in any manner that will secure
     adequate publicity for such issue, approval, amendment or
     revocation;

(b) specify in the notice mentioned in paragraph (a) the date of
     issue, approval, amendment or revocation, as the case may
     be; and

          (c) ensure that, so long as the code of practice or standard of
              performance remains in force, copies of that code or
              standard, and of all amendments to that code or standard,
              are available for inspection by any licensed operator of a
              foreign employee dormitory and any foreign employee.

 (5) No code of practice or standard of performance, and no
amendment to, or revocation of, an approved code of practice or
standard of performance, has any force or effect until the notice
relating thereto is published in accordance with subsection (4).

 (6) A code of practice or standard of performance issued or
approved under this section does not have legislative effect.

 (7) Subject to subsection (8), every licensed operator must comply
with the relevant codes of practice and standards of performance
applicable to the licensed operator.

 (8) The Commissioner may, either generally or for such time as the
Commissioner may specify, waive the application of any code of
practice or standard of performance, or part thereof, issued or
approved under this section to any licensed operator.

 (9) Any contravention of, or failure to comply by a person with, a
code of practice or standard of performance that applies to the person
does not of itself render the person liable to criminal proceedings, but
any such contravention or failure to comply may, in any proceedings
(criminal or otherwise under this Act) in connection with an offence
under this Act, be relied on by any party to those proceedings as
tending to establish or negative any liability which is in question in
those proceedings.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Foreign Employee

29  Dormitories Act 2015                                      2020 Ed.

Notice of stoppage of use as foreign employee dormitory

 20.—(1) A licensed operator operating boarding premises as a
foreign employee dormitory must not, without the prior approval of
the Commissioner —

    (a) wholly and permanently cease operating the boarding
         premises specified in the licensed operator’s licence; or

    (b) for any reason surrender the licensed operator’s licence.

 (2) An application by a licensed operator for approval under
subsection (1) must be made to the Commissioner at least 28 days (or
any longer period that may be prescribed in substitution) immediately
before the following date, whichever is applicable:

    (a) the date on which operations of the boarding premises are
         to wholly and permanently cease;

    (b) the date on which the licensed operator intends the
         surrender of the licence to take effect.

 (3) In granting any approval, the Commissioner may impose any
conditions that he or she thinks fit, including but not limited to
directing the licensed operator to provide assistance to foreign
employees who are residents of the boarding premises specified in the
licence to find alternative accommodation in Singapore.

 (4) The Commissioner may terminate a licence that is surrendered
only when all conditions of his or her approval imposed under
subsection (3) are satisfied.

 (5) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$200,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

 (6) A person who contravenes or fails to comply with any condition
imposed under subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Foreign Employee

2020 Ed.  Dormitories Act 2015                                      30

Register

 21.—(1) The Commissioner is to keep a Register of licensed
operators of foreign employee dormitories.

 (2) The Register may be kept in any form that the Commissioner
considers appropriate.

 (3) The Commissioner may record in the Register in relation to a
foreign employee dormitory —

(a) particulars of any enforcement or regulatory action taken
     in respect of the foreign employee dormitory, its proprietor
     or licensed operator or any of its staff; and

(b) any other particulars or information that the Commissioner
     considers appropriate or that may be prescribed.

 (4) The Commissioner is to ensure that information in the Register
is kept up‑to‑date and may arrange for any information in the Register
that the Commissioner considers appropriate to be available to the
public without charge.

 (5) The Register is evidence of the particulars or information
recorded in it.

 (6) A certificate signed or purporting to be signed by the
Commissioner and stating that the premises named in the
certificate were or were not licensed at a specified time, or stating
any other particulars or information recorded in the Register at a
specified time, is admissible in any legal proceedings and is evidence
of the matters stated in the certificate.

                                    PART 3

                                   APPEALS

Appeal to Minister

 22.—(1) The former holder of the licence revoked (called the
appellant) may appeal to the Minister against the decision by the
Commissioner under section 14 to revoke the licence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Foreign Employee

31  Dormitories Act 2015                                      2020 Ed.

 (2) An appeal must be in writing and specify the grounds on which
it is made, and be made within a prescribed period after the date of
receipt of the decision that is appealed against.

 (3) The Minister may reject an appeal of an appellant that fails to
comply with subsection (2).

(4) After consideration of an appeal, the Minister may —

    (a) reject the appeal and confirm the Commissioner’s
         decision; or

    (b) allow the appeal and substitute or vary the Commissioner’s
         decision.

(5) The Minister’s decision on an appeal is final.

 (6) Every appellant must be notified of the Minister’s decision
under subsection (5).

 (7) An appeal against the Commissioner’s decision does not affect
the operation of the decision or prevent the taking of action to
implement the decision, and unless otherwise directed by the
Minister, the decision appealed against must be complied with until
the determination of the appeal.

Designation of persons to hear appeals

 23.—(1) The Minister may designate any of the following persons
to hear and determine, in his or her place, any appeals or a specific
appeal under section 22:

       (a) any Minister of State or Parliamentary Secretary for his or
            her Ministry;

       (b) any public officer in his or her Ministry not subordinate to
            the Commissioner whose decision is appealed against.

 (2) Any reference in section 22 to the Minister includes a reference
to the Minister of State, Parliamentary Secretary or public officer so
designated under subsection (1) for that appeal.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Foreign Employee

2020 Ed.  Dormitories Act 2015                                      32

          PART 4

          ENFORCEMENT

Powers of entry, etc., for enforcement purpose

 24.—(1) A police officer or a dormitory inspector may, for an
enforcement purpose, do all or any of the following in relation to any
boarding premises (whether or not a foreign employee dormitory that
is the subject of a licence):

(a) enter and inspect, without warrant, the premises, and
     inspect any equipment, vehicle or other thing at the
     premises;

(b) photograph or film, or make audio recordings or make
     sketches of, any part of the premises or anything at the
     premises and of any individual apparently residing at the
     premises;

          (c) enter and search, in the day or night, the premises, if the
              police officer or dormitory inspector has reasonable cause
              to believe that evidence of the commission of an offence
              under this Act can be found at those premises;

(d) detain any individual found within those premises until the
     search of the premises is complete;

          (e) inspect and make copies of, or take extracts from (without
              fee or reward) any document kept at the premises;

          (f) take any document or any other thing at the premises if the
              police officer or dormitory inspector considers it necessary
              to do so for the purpose of obtaining evidence of an offence
              under this Act, including asking any individual who is able
              to operate any equipment at the premises to do so for the
              purpose of enabling the police officer or dormitory
              inspector to ascertain whether the equipment, or a disk,
              tape or other storage device that can be used or associated
              with the equipment, contains information that is relevant;

(g) require any person whom the police officer or dormitory
     inspector has reason to believe to be in possession of any
     document (including travel documents or documents of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Foreign Employee

33  Dormitories Act 2015                                      2020 Ed.

    identity) or information relevant to the purposes of this Act
    to take reasonable steps to produce the document or
    provide the information;

    (h) require any person whom the police officer or dormitory
         inspector has reason to believe to be acquainted with any
         facts or circumstances relevant to the carrying out of the
         provisions of this Act —

    (i) to answer any question to the best of that person’s
        knowledge, information and belief, immediately or
        at any place and time specified in writing; or

    (ii) to take reasonable steps to provide information or
         produce a document, immediately or at any place and
         time specified in writing;

    (i) require the manager of the premises to produce all or any of
        the residents of those premises or the occupancy
        agreements for the residents of those premises.

 (2) The power to require a person to provide information or produce
a document under subsection (1)(g) or (h) includes the power —

    (a) to require that person, or any person who is or was an
         officer or employee of that person, to provide an
         explanation of the document or information;

    (b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
         that person to state, to the best of his or her knowledge and
         belief, where it is; and

    (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
        form, to require the information to be made available to the
        police officer or dormitory inspector in legible form.

 (3) Where any document or information the production of which
has been required of a person under subsection (1)(h) has not been
produced or provided in compliance with that requirement, and the
police officer or dormitory inspector concerned has reasonable
grounds to believe that the person will not attend to produce or
provide the document or information in compliance with that
requirement, the police officer or dormitory inspector may apply to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Foreign Employee

2020 Ed.  Dormitories Act 2015                                      34

a Magistrate for the issue of a warrant to secure the attendance of that
person for that purpose.

 (4) If entry to any boarding premises mentioned in subsection (1)
cannot be obtained, a police officer or dormitory inspector may,
where the police officer or dormitory inspector has reasonable cause
to believe that evidence of the commission of an offence under this
Act can be found at those premises —

(a) after declaring his or her office and after producing his or
     her identification card on demand being made; and

(b) with such force as is necessary to obtain entry,

break open any door or window leading to the premises, or remove by
force any obstruction to the entry or search.

(5) Without limiting subsection (1) —

(a) a dormitory inspector exercising any function under this
     section may be accompanied by one or more medical
     practitioners and any of those medical practitioners may
     inspect the premises and observe, examine and speak with
     any person apparently residing at the premises; and

(b) a dormitory inspector, in exercising his or her power under
     subsection (1)(a) or (c), may also open any ground and
     remove any flooring and take such measures as may be
     necessary to ascertain the character and condition of the
     premises and of any pipe, sewer, drain, wire or fitting.

 (6) Any person asked under subsection (1)(g) or (h) is bound to
state truly what the person knows of the facts and circumstances
concerning matters under this Act, except that the person need not say
anything that might expose that person to a criminal charge, penalty
or forfeiture.

 (7) A statement made by any person asked under this section
must —

(a) be reduced to writing;

(b) be read over to the person;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Foreign Employee

35  Dormitories Act 2015                                      2020 Ed.

    (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted in
        a language that the person understands; and

    (d) after correction, if necessary, be signed by that person.

(8) In this section, “enforcement purpose” means —

    (a) ensuring that the provisions of this Act and the regulations
         made under section 34 with respect to boarding premises
         operated as foreign employee dormitories, a code of
         practice or standard of performance, and any conditions
         imposed on a licence or any other consent, approval or
         authorisation under this Act with respect to boarding
         premises operated as foreign employee dormitories, are
         being complied with; or

    (b) investigating any offence under this Act or any
         contravention of or non‑compliance with a provision of
         this Act or a code of practice or standard of performance.

Power to arrest

 25.—(1) A police officer or a dormitory inspector may arrest
without warrant any individual whom the police officer or dormitory
inspector (as the case may be) reasonably suspects is committing or
has committed an offence under section 7.

 (2) For the purposes of this section, an officer or a member of a
body corporate or an unincorporated association or a partner of a
partnership that is liable for an offence under section 7 by virtue of
section 27 is to be regarded as having committed the offence.

 (3) A police officer or a dormitory inspector making an arrest
without warrant must, without unnecessary delay and subject to
subsection (4), take or send the individual arrested before a
Magistrate’s Court.

 (4) A dormitory inspector must not detain in custody any individual
arrested without warrant for longer than is reasonable in the
circumstances, and the period must not in any case exceed
48 hours exclusive of the time necessary for the journey from the
place of arrest to the Magistrate’s Court.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Foreign Employee

2020 Ed.  Dormitories Act 2015                                      36

 (5) An individual who has been arrested by a police officer or a
dormitory inspector under this section may be released on bail, or on
the individual’s own bond, by a police officer or dormitory inspector.

 (6) The provisions of Division 5 of Part 6 of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010 apply to any bail or bond granted under this section; and
for this purpose, any reference in those provisions to “officer”,
“police officer” or “police officer of or above the rank of sergeant” is
to be read as a reference to a dormitory inspector.

 (7) Sections 21A to 21G of the Employment of Foreign Manpower
Act 1990 apply, with the necessary modifications, to an arrest under
this section by a dormitory inspector for or in relation to an offence.

 (8) In this section, a reference to an offence under section 7 includes
a reference to an abetment of, or a conspiracy or an attempt to
commit, the offence.

 (9) To avoid doubt, nothing in this section affects a police officer’s
powers or duties under the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

Offence of providing false information, etc.

 26.—(1) If —

       (a) a person furnishes a document, or makes a statement
            (whether orally, in writing or any other way) or gives
            information, to the Commissioner or a dormitory
            inspector;

       (b) the document, statement or information is false or
            misleading, or the statement or information omits any
            matter or thing without which the statement or information
            (as the case may be) is misleading;

       (c) the person knows, or ought reasonably to know, that the
            document, statement or information is as described in
            paragraph (b); and

       (d) the document is furnished in, or the statement is made or
            the information is given in, or in connection with —

               (i) an application (whether for that person or for
                   another) for a licence or renewal of a licence;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Foreign Employee

37  Dormitories Act 2015                                      2020 Ed.

    (ii) a representation requested under section 13 or 14; or

    (iii) a question or requirement of a dormitory inspector
          under section 24(1) or (2),

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the document, statement or
information is not false or misleading in a material particular, or if the
statement or information did not omit any matter or thing without
which the statement or information (as the case may be) is misleading
in a material particular.

 (3) A person who refuses to give access to, or obstructs, hinders or
delays the Commissioner or any other dormitory inspector in the
discharge of his or her duties under this Act shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

 (4) It is not an offence under subsection (3) for any person to refuse
to comply with any request, demand or order made or given by the
Commissioner or any dormitory inspector who fails to declare his or
her office and refuses to produce his or her identification card on
demand being made by that person.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 27.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer of the body corporate; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s part,

the officer, as well as the body corporate, shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                       Foreign Employee

2020 Ed.               Dormitories Act 2015                         38

a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if that member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     a partner; or

(b) to be attributable to any neglect on the partner’s part,

the partner, as well as the partnership, shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
     its governing body; or

(b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such an
     officer or a member,

the officer or member, as well as the unincorporated association, shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(5) In this section —

“body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership as
   defined in section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
   Act 2005;

“officer” —

          (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
               partner, member of the committee of management,
               chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
               officer of the body corporate and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity; or

          (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
               than a partnership), means the president, the
               secretary, or any member of the committee of the
               unincorporated association, or any person holding a

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Foreign Employee

39  Dormitories Act 2015                                      2020 Ed.

    position analogous to that of president, secretary or
    member of the committee and includes any person
    purporting to act in any such capacity;

    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

Composition of offences

 28.—(1) The Commissioner may compound any offence under this
Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from
the person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a
sum not exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                    PART 5

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Foreign employee dormitory deemed to be public place

 29. Every foreign employee dormitory is deemed to be a public
place for the purposes of section 14(1) of the Liquor Control (Supply
and Consumption) Act 2015.

                                                                                                             [5/2015]

Service of documents

 30.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Foreign Employee

2020 Ed.  Dormitories Act 2015                                      40

(b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
     specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
     if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
     address or business address;

          (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
              adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
              business address with an adult apparently employed there;

(d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
     at the individual’s residential address or business address;

          (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
              person giving or serving the document as the fax number
              for the service of documents on the individual; or

          (f) by sending it by email to the last email address of the
              individual.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

(a) by giving it to any partner, secretary or other similar officer
     of the partnership;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the partnership’s business address;

          (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
              partnership’s business address; or

(d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
     address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

(a) by giving it to the secretary or other like officer of the body
     corporate or unincorporated association, or the limited
     liability partnership’s manager;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                       Foreign Employee

41                     Dormitories Act 2015                   2020 Ed.

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the registered office or principal office in Singapore of
         the body corporate or unincorporated association;

    (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the registered
        office or principal office in Singapore of the body
        corporate or unincorporated association; or

    (d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
         corporate or unincorporated association.

(5) Service of a document under subsection (1) takes effect —

    (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
         successful transmission is received, on the day of
         transmission;

    (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
         becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
         it is addressed; and

    (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
        after the day the document is posted (even if it is returned
        undelivered).

 (6) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

(7) In this section —

    “business address” means —

    (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
         last known place of business in Singapore; or

    (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
         liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
         last known place of business in Singapore;

    “last email address” means the last email address given by the
       addressee concerned to the person serving the document as
       the email address for the service of documents under this Act,
       or the last email address of the addressee concerned known to
       the person serving the document;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Foreign Employee

2020 Ed.  Dormitories Act 2015                                      42

“residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
   place of residence in Singapore.

Protection from personal liability

 31. No liability shall lie against the Commissioner, a Deputy
Commissioner for Foreign Employee Dormitories, an Assistant
Commissioner for Foreign Employee Dormitories or any other
dormitory inspector for anything done or intended to be done with
reasonable care and in good faith in the execution or purported
execution of this Act.

General exemption

 32. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person
or class of persons from all or any provisions of this Act, either
generally or in a particular case and subject to any conditions that the
Minister may impose.

Jurisdiction of courts

 33. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court or a Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to
try any offence under this Act and has power to impose the full
penalty or punishment in respect of the offence.

Regulations

 34.—(1) The Minister may make regulations necessary or
convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this
Act.

 (2) In particular, the Minister may make regulations for any of the
following:

       (a) classes of licences;

       (b) the form and manner in which, and the time within which,
            an application for a licence or an application to renew a
            licence may be made, and the information and evidence
            required to be provided in connection with such an
            application;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Foreign Employee

43  Dormitories Act 2015                                      2020 Ed.

    (c) the carrying out of probity checks of applicants for a
        licence, and of individuals who are or are proposed to be a
        manager of boarding premises operated as a foreign
        employee dormitory;

    (d) the duties of licensed operators in connection with
         operating foreign employee dormitories;

    (e) the appointment, duties and qualifications of managers of
        boarding premises operated as foreign employee
        dormitories, including but not limited to the maximum
        number of such premises in respect of which the manager
        may be appointed as manager;

    (f) standards to be observed and facilities to be provided in
        boarding premises operated as foreign employee
        dormitories to prevent overcrowding, for the
        maintenance, cleanliness, water supply, sanitation and
        hygiene of the premises, and generally in connection with
        the health, safety and wellbeing of foreign employees
        residing at the premises;

    (g) a standard form of occupancy agreement, for use for
         different classes of boarding premises operated as foreign
         employee dormitories, occupancy agreements or parties
         and the enforceability of occupancy agreements that are
         not in the standard form, except that the terms of standard
         forms of occupancy agreements must not apply to
         occupancy agreements entered into before the
         regulations for those standard forms take effect;

    (h) the fees to be paid in respect of applications for, and the
         grant and renewal or late renewal of, any licence and
         otherwise in connection with the administration of this Act,
         and the waiver, reduction or refund of fees charged;

    (i) the records that are to be kept by licensed operators and
        managers of boarding premises operated as foreign
        employee dormitories and the provision of returns and
        other information with respect to the premises.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Foreign Employee

2020 Ed.  Dormitories Act 2015                                      44

 (3) In particular, the Minister may, for the purposes of the definition
of “boarding premises” in section 2(1), make regulations —

(a) prescribing that the buildings, structures or facilities of a
     specified or described nature, or adapted or designed in a
     specified or described way, are to be regarded by the
     Commissioner under section 2(2) as a single complex of
     premises in the administration of this Act; or

(b) prescribing criteria by which the Commissioner may
     determine under section 2(2) whether buildings,
     structures or facilities are to be regarded as a single
     complex of premises in the administration of this Act.

 (4) In particular, the Minister may, for the purposes of the definition
of “occupancy load” in section 2(1), make regulations —

(a) prescribing the criteria by which the Commissioner is to
     determine the occupancy load of any premises; and

(b) adopting or incorporating by reference, any number —

          (i) contained in or prescribed by or under any written
              law as in force at a particular time or from time to
              time relating to maximum occupancy of boarding
              premises; or

          (ii) contained in or specified by any agreement,
               permission, approval, authorisation or other
               document (by whatever name) made with, issued
               or granted or to be made with, issued or granted, to a
               proprietor or an operator of boarding premises
               relating to its maximum occupancy by a public
               authority.

(5) Regulations made under this section may —

(a) prescribe the offences under this Act that may be
     compounded;

(b) provide that any contravention of any provision of the
     regulations shall be an offence punishable with a fine not
     exceeding $50,000 or with imprisonment for a term not
     exceeding 3 years or with both; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Foreign Employee

45  Dormitories Act 2015                                      2020 Ed.

    (c) provide for such transitional, saving and other
        consequential, incidental and supplemental provisions as
        the Minister considers necessary or expedient.

 (6) All regulations made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

                 FOREIGN EMPLOYEE
               DORMITORIES ACT 2015

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 3 of 2015 — Foreign Employee Dormitories Act 2015

Bill           : 43/2014

First Reading  : 4 November 2014

Second and Third Readings : 20 January 2015

Commencement   : 1 January 2016 (except section 29)

2. Act 5 of 2015 — Liquor Control (Supply and Consumption) Act 2015
   (Amendments made by section 38(5) of the above Act)

Bill           : 1/2015

First Reading  : 19 January 2015

Second and Third Readings : 30 January 2015

Commencement   : 1 January 2016 (section 38(5))

3. 2020 Revised Edition — Foreign Employee
                                    Dormitories Act 2015

Operation      : 31 December 2021

4. Act 31 of 2023 — Immigration (Amendment) Act 2023
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 26/2023

First Reading  : 2 August 2023

Second and Third Readings : 18 September 2023

Commencement   : 31 December 2024
                     1 December 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
.                                 ii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
 COMPARATIVE TABLE

  FOREIGN EMPLOYEE
DORMITORIES ACT 2015

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                  2020 Ed.          Act 3 of 2015
23—(1) and (2)
[Omitted as spent]          23
[Omitted as spent]          35—(1)
[Omitted as spent]
                               (2)
                               (3)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
