THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
              ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONS
                               ACT 2011

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                                                                   2020 Ed.

         Allied Health Professions
                   Act 2011

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Duly qualified allied health professional
     2.  Application
     3.  Amendment of Schedules
     4.
     5.

                                        PART 2

                ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONS COUNCIL

 6. Establishment of Allied Health Professions Council
 7. Functions of Council
 8. President of Council
 9. Disqualifications from membership of Council
10. Filling of vacancies
11. Meetings of Council and payment of members
12. Appointment and establishment of committees and professional

         boards and delegation of powers

                                        PART 3

       REGISTRATION OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS

13. Registrar of Council
14. Registers
15. Alterations in registers
16. Full registration
17. Restricted registration
18. Conditional registration
19. Temporary registration

         1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                           2

Section   Power to amend, vary, rescind, revoke or suspend condition or
   20.    restriction
          Application for registration
   21.    Certificate of registration
   22.    Practising certificate
   23.    Publication of list of duly qualified allied health professionals
   24.    Registered allied health professionals to use only qualifications
   25.    entered in registers and approved titles, etc.
          Power of Council to remove names from registers
   26.    Restoration of name removed under section 26
   27.    Registrar’s certificate
   28.

                                        PART 4

                                      OFFENCES

29. False assumption of title by non‑duly qualified allied health
         professional

30. False assumption of title by duly qualified allied health
         professional

31. Making representation of another
32. Causing or permitting another to make representation of oneself
33. Liability of registered allied health professional for enabling

         another to act in contravention of section 29 or 30
34. Suspended persons not to practise prescribed professions during

         period of suspension
35. Fraudulent registration, etc.
36. General penalty

                                            PART 5

DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS, HEALTH COMMITTEE INQUIRIES AND
                           PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENTS

                  Division 1 — Voluntary removal, suspension, etc.

   37. Voluntary removal, suspension, etc.

              Division 2 — Complaints and commencement of inquiry

   38. Appointment of Complaints Panel
   39. Complaints against registered allied health professionals, etc.
   40. Appointment of Complaints Committees
   41. Referral to Complaints Committee, etc.
   42. Commencement of inquiry by Complaints Committee

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
   Allied Health Professions

3                                Act 2011                        2020 Ed.

Section
   43. Mediation
   44. Conduct of investigation

   Division 3 — Performance and fitness assessments

   45. Performance assessment
   46. Fitness assessment
   47. Confidentiality of information

   Division 4 — Powers after investigation

   48. Investigation report and deliberation by Complaints Committee
   49. Findings of Complaints Committee

   Division 5 — Disciplinary Tribunals

   50. Disciplinary Tribunal
   51. Proceedings of Disciplinary Tribunal
   52. Referral and transfer of cases to Health Committee
   53. Findings of Disciplinary Tribunal
   54. Effective dates of Disciplinary Tribunal orders and

            non‑compliance with orders, etc.
   55. Appeal against order by Disciplinary Tribunal
   56. Restoration of names to register

   Division 6 — Health Committee

   57. Health Committee
   58. Unfitness to practise through illness, etc.
   59. Restoration of names removed on recommendation of Health

            Committee

   Division 7 — Interim Orders Committees

   60. Interim Orders Committee
   61. Interim orders
   62. Review of interim orders
   63. Interim Orders Committee may revoke, vary or replace interim

            order
   64. Right of hearing
   65. Application to General Division of High Court
   66. Duration of interim orders
   67. Person suspended under interim suspension order not regarded

            as registered

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  4

          Division 8 — Appointment of legal counsel

Section
   68. Council may appoint legal counsel

                                        PART 6

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

69. Investigators
70. Assessors to Council
71. No action against Council, etc., in absence of bad faith
72. Service of documents
73. Composition of offences
74. Exemption
75. Regulations
76. Saving and transitional provisions

         First Schedule — Allied health professions
         Second Schedule — Prescribed allied health professions

An Act to provide for the registration of prescribed allied health
  professionals for the protection of the health and safety of the public
  and for purposes connected therewith.

                                                                 [8 April 2013]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Allied Health Professions Act 2011.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “allied health professional” means a person who has a
         professional qualification in any of the allied health
         professions listed in the First Schedule;
      “allied health professional with conditional registration” means
         a person registered as such under a provision of this Act;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
   Allied Health Professions

5  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

   “allied health professional with full registration” means a person
      registered as such under a provision of this Act;

   “allied health professional with restricted registration” means a
      person registered as such under a provision of this Act;

   “allied health professional with temporary registration” means a
      person registered as such under a provision of this Act;

   “certificate of registration” means a certificate of registration
      issued by the Council under section 22;

   “Council” means the Allied Health Professions Council
      established under section 6;

   [Deleted by Act 11 of 2023 wef 01/05/2023]

   “institution of higher learning” includes a polytechnic or
      university;

   “layperson” means any person other than a healthcare
      professional;

   “medical practitioner” means a person who is registered under
      the Medical Registration Act 1997 and includes a person
      deemed to be so registered under section 72(1) of that Act;

   “member” means a member of the Council;

   “practising certificate” means a practising certificate issued
      under section 23;

   “prescribed allied health profession” means any of the allied
      health professions set out in the first column of the
      Second Schedule;

   “president” means the president of the Council;

   “register” means any of the registers mentioned in section 14(1);

   “registered allied health professional” means an allied health
      professional with full, restricted, conditional or temporary
      registration;

   “Registrar” means the Registrar of the Council;

   “regulations” means the regulations made under section 75.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  6

Duly qualified allied health professional

 3. In this Act and any other written law, unless the context
otherwise requires, “duly qualified allied health professional”, or any
expression importing a person recognised by law as a member of one
of the prescribed allied health professions, means a person who is a
registered allied health professional and has a valid practising
certificate.

Application

 4. This Act applies only in relation to allied health professions set
out in the Second Schedule.

Amendment of Schedules

 5.—(1) The Minister may, after consultation with the Council, by
order in the Gazette, amend the First or Second Schedule.

 (2) The Minister may prescribe in an order amending the
Second Schedule such transitional provisions as may be necessary
or expedient.

 (3) Every order amending the Second Schedule must be presented
to Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

                                    PART 2

            ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONS COUNCIL

Establishment of Allied Health Professions Council

 6.—(1) A body called the Allied Health Professions Council is
established, which consists of —

       (a) the Director‑General of Health, or the representative
            nominated by the Director‑General of Health and
            approved by the Minister;

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2023 wef 01/05/2023]

       (b) the Director‑General of Education, or the representative
            nominated by the Director‑General of Education and
            approved by the Minister;

       (c) the Registrar; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
   Allied Health Professions

7  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

   (d) the following persons, each appointed by the Minister:

   (i) at least one allied health professional with full
       registration from each of the prescribed allied
       health professions who has at least 10 years’
       experience in that profession; and

   (ii) 2 other persons.

 (2) The members appointed under subsection (1)(d) hold office for
a term not exceeding 3 years and are eligible for re‑appointment.

 (3) The Minister may, at any time, revoke the appointment of any
member appointed under subsection (1)(d) without giving any
reason.

Functions of Council

 7. The functions of the Council are —

       (a) to approve or reject applications for registration under this
            Act and to approve any such applications subject to such
            conditions and restrictions as it may think fit;

       (b) to issue practising certificates to registered allied health
            professionals;

       (c) to accredit programmes for, and providers of, the training
            and assessment of persons seeking to become registered
            allied health professionals;

       (d) to accredit programmes for, and providers of, the
            continuing professional education of registered allied
            health professionals;

       (e) to determine and regulate the standards of practice,
            competence, conduct and ethics of registered allied
            health professionals;

        (f) to keep and maintain the registers;

       (g) to coordinate and supervise the activities of the committees
            and professional boards appointed under section 12; and

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  8

(h) generally to do all such acts, matters and things as are
     necessary or authorised to be carried out under or for the
     purposes of this Act.

President of Council

 8.—(1) The Minister must appoint one of the members as the
president of the Council.

 (2) The president is to preside at any meeting of the Council and, in
his or her absence, the members present may elect a member to
preside at that meeting.

Disqualifications from membership of Council

 9.—(1) Despite anything in section 6(1), a person must not, or must
not continue to, hold office as a member if —

       (a) he or she is not a citizen or a permanent resident of
            Singapore;

       (b) he or she is an undischarged bankrupt;

       (c) he or she has been convicted in Singapore or elsewhere of
            any offence involving fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude
            or implying a defect in character which makes him or her
            unfit for his or her profession;

       (d) he or she has been found guilty in Singapore or elsewhere
            of any improper act or conduct which brings disrepute to
            his or her profession;

       (e) he or she has been found guilty in Singapore or elsewhere
            of professional misconduct; or

        (f) for medical reasons, the person is unable to perform his or
            her duties as a member, as assessed by a medical
            practitioner.

 (2) The Minister may waive the disqualification in
subsection (1)(a) in respect of any particular member.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                      Allied Health Professions

9                     Act 2011                               2020 Ed.

Filling of vacancies

   10.—(1) The office of a member becomes vacant if the member —

   (a) dies;

   (b) resigns his or her office;

   (c) becomes subject to any of the disqualifications in section 9,
       unless (in the case of the disqualification in section 9(1)(a))
       the Minister has waived the disqualification in respect of
       the member; or

   (d) has his or her appointment revoked before the expiry of the
        term for which he or she has been appointed.

 (2) The Minister may remove from office any member who is
absent without leave of the Council from 3 consecutive meetings
of —

   (a) the Council;

   (b) any committee of the Council (including a Complaints
        Committee, a Disciplinary Tribunal, a Health Committee
        or an Interim Orders Committee) of which he or she is a
        member; or

   (c) any professional board appointed under section 12 of
       which he or she is a member.

 (3) Any question as to whether a person has ceased to be a member
is to be determined by the Minister whose decision is final.

 (4) If any vacancy arises among the appointed members, the
Minister may appoint a person to fill the vacancy in the manner in
which the appointment to the vacant office was made, and that person
is to hold office for as long as the member in whose place he or she
was appointed would have held office.

 (5) No act done by or under the authority of the Council is invalid in
consequence of any defect that is afterwards discovered in the
appointment or qualification of the members or any of them.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  10

Meetings of Council and payment of members

 11.—(1) The Council must meet at such times and places as the
president or the Registrar may appoint.

 (2) The quorum at every meeting of the Council is one third of the
total number of members or 4 members, whichever is the higher; and
no business is to be transacted at any meeting unless a quorum is
present.

 (3) The president or member presiding at any meeting of the
Council has an original vote and, in the case of an equality of votes, a
casting vote.

 (4) Subject to subsection (2), the Council may act despite any
vacancy in the membership of the Council.

 (5) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Council may regulate
its own procedure.

 (6) The Council must keep minutes of its proceedings in such form
or manner as it thinks fit.

 (7) The members of the Council and members of any committee or
professional board appointed by the Council (including a Complaints
Committee, a Disciplinary Tribunal, a Health Committee and an
Interim Orders Committee) are to be paid such fees as may be
approved by the Minister.

 (8) Where a member mentioned in subsection (7) is an employee,
the payment mentioned in that subsection may be made to his or her
employer or directly to the member.

Appointment and establishment of committees and
professional boards and delegation of powers

 12.—(1) The Council may —

       (a) appoint one or more committees; and

       (b) with the approval of the Minister, appoint one or more
            professional boards,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

11  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

for any general or special purpose which in the opinion of the Council
may be better dealt with or managed by a committee or professional
board.

 (2) The purpose mentioned in subsection (1) includes the making of
recommendations on any decision to be made by the Council under
this Act.

(3) The Council may also —

    (a) delegate to any professional board so appointed any of its
         powers or functions (other than its power under section 75)
         relating to the registration of allied health professionals,
         the accreditation of programmes for the continuing
         professional education of registered allied health
         professionals and the training and assessment of persons
         seeking to be so registered, and the accreditation of
         providers of such education, training or assessment, with
         or without restrictions or conditions as the Council thinks
         fit; and

    (b) delegate to any committee so appointed any of its other
         powers or functions (except the power of delegation
         conferred by this subsection and the powers under
         sections 73 and 75), with or without restrictions or
         conditions as the Council thinks fit.

 (4) The number and term of office of the members of a committee
or professional board appointed under this section and the number of
those members necessary to form a quorum are to be fixed by the
Council.

 (5) A committee or professional board appointed under this section
may include persons who are not members of the Council.

 (6) The Council may continue to exercise any power conferred on it
or perform any function under this Act despite the delegation of such
power or function under this section.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                      Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.              Act 2011                                      12

                      PART 3

REGISTRATION OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS

Registrar of Council

 13.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, the Minister must appoint a
public officer to be the Registrar of the Council.

 (2) The Minister may appoint a Deputy Registrar to assist the
Registrar in carrying out the Registrar’s functions and duties under
this Act.

 (3) The Registrar may, subject to such conditions or restrictions as
the Registrar thinks fit, delegate to the Deputy Registrar any of the
Registrar’s powers or functions under this Act, except the power of
delegation conferred by this subsection.

 (4) The Registrar may continue to exercise any power conferred on
him or her or perform any function under this Act despite the
delegation of the power or function under this subsection.

 (5) Other than the Registrar’s functions under this Act, the
Registrar has such other functions as may be prescribed.

Registers

 14.—(1) The Registrar must maintain and keep the following
registers:

       (a) a register called “The Register of Allied Health
            Professionals with Full Registration”, which is divided
            into parts, with one part corresponding to every prescribed
            allied health profession and containing the particulars
            mentioned in subsection (2) of persons who are registered
            as allied health professionals with full registration in that
            profession;

       (b) a register called “The Register of Allied Health
            Professionals with Restricted Registration”, which is
            divided into parts, with one part corresponding to every
            prescribed allied health profession and containing the
            particulars mentioned in subsection (2) of persons who are

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

13  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

    registered as allied health professionals with restricted
    registration in that profession;

    (c) a register called “The Register of Allied Health
        Professionals with Conditional Registration”, which is
        divided into parts, with one part corresponding to every
        prescribed allied health profession and containing the
        particulars mentioned in subsection (2) of persons who are
        registered as allied health professionals with conditional
        registration in that profession;

    (d) a register called “The Register of Allied Health
         Professionals with Temporary Registration”, which is
         divided into parts, with one part corresponding to every
         prescribed allied health profession and containing the
         particulars mentioned in subsection (2) of persons who are
         registered as allied health professionals with temporary
         registration in that profession.

 (2) The particulars of every registered allied health professional to
be contained in a part of a register are the following:

    (a) his or her name and residential address;

    (b) the address of his or her current place of practice;

    (c) the date of the registration of the person in that part of the
        register;

    (d) the qualification by virtue of which he or she is registered
         and the date he or she obtained that qualification; and

    (e) such other particulars as the Council may determine for
        that part of the register.

 (3) The Registrar is responsible for the maintenance and custody of
the registers.

 (4) Subject to subsection (6), every person whose name is entered
in a register must inform the Registrar in writing of —

    (a) any change in his or her name or residential address;

    (b) any change in his or her practice address or such of his or
         her other particulars as may be prescribed; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                    14

          (c) any change of or addition to his or her qualification,

within 28 days after such change or addition.

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (4)(a) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$1,000.

 (6) A person who makes a report of a change in his or her residential
address under section 10 of the National Registration Act 1965 is
deemed to have complied with subsection (4)(a) on the date that he or
she makes the report.

 (7) The Registrar may disclose any information in the registers to
any person prescribed by regulations, if such disclosure is in
accordance with such conditions as may be specified in those
regulations.

 (8) Subsection (7) is without prejudice to any other right or duty to
disclose the information under general or written law.

Alterations in registers

 15.—(1) The Registrar must —

       (a) insert in the appropriate register any alteration which may
            come to the Registrar’s knowledge to any particulars or
            qualifications of any registered allied health professional;

       (b) correct any error in a register; and

       (c) remove from the appropriate register the name of any
            person —

               (i) whose name is ordered to be removed under any
                   provision of this Act;

              (ii) who is deceased;

             (iii) who has requested and shown sufficient reason for
                   the person’s name to be removed from that register,
                   unless an inquiry has or proceedings have
                   commenced under Part 5 against that person; or

             (iv) whose registration has lapsed.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

15  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

 (2) The Registrar may remove from the appropriate register the
name of a person who has not renewed his or her practising certificate
for a continuous period of not less than 2 years.

Full registration

 16.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person who is or
was an allied health professional with conditional registration in a
prescribed allied health profession under section 18(1)(a) may be
registered as an allied health professional with full registration in that
profession if the person —

       (a) has, to the satisfaction of the Council, complied with the
            conditions and restrictions imposed on his or her
            registration under section 18(5); and

       (b) satisfies such other requirements as the Council may, with
            the approval of the Minister, prescribe.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), a person who —

       (a) holds any qualification recognised by the Council for the
            purposes of this subsection; and

       (b) satisfies the Council that he or she has the knowledge and
            skill and sufficient experience in a prescribed allied health
            profession,

may, if the Council thinks fit so to direct, be registered as an allied
health professional with full registration in that prescribed allied
health profession.

 (3) Despite subsections (1) and (2), the Council may, if it is of the
view that it is not in the public interest for a person mentioned in
either of those subsections to be registered as an allied health
professional with full registration, direct that the person be
registered —

       (a) provided section 17(1) is satisfied, as an allied health
            professional with restricted registration in any prescribed
            allied health profession, and section 17(2) and (3) applies
            accordingly; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  16

(b) as an allied health professional with conditional
     registration in any prescribed allied health profession,
     and section 18(4) to (9) applies accordingly.

Restricted registration

 17.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person may, if the
Council thinks fit so to direct, be registered as an allied health
professional with restricted registration in a prescribed allied health
profession if, in the opinion of the Council, the person is competent to
practise independently only in a branch or an area of that profession
or at a particular establishment or description of establishments,
because of —

       (a) the nature, extent, period or recency of his or her previous
            practice of that profession;

       (b) the nature, extent, period or recency of his or her training in
            that profession;

       (c) his or her physical or mental health; or

       (d) any other reason.

 (2) A person may be registered under subsection (1) subject to such
conditions and restrictions as the Council may impose.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (2), the Council may impose the
following conditions and restrictions:

       (a) the particular employment or description of employment
            for the purposes of which the person is registered;

       (b) the particular establishment or description of
            establishments in which the person may practise the
            prescribed allied health profession;

       (c) the particular branch or area of the prescribed allied health
            profession in which the person may practise.

Conditional registration

 18.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person may, if the
Council thinks fit so to direct, be registered as an allied health

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

17  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

professional with conditional registration in a prescribed allied health
profession if the person —

    (a) holds such qualification in that profession conferred by an
         institution of higher learning in Singapore as may be
         prescribed;

    (b) holds such qualification in that profession conferred by an
         institution of higher learning outside Singapore as may be
         prescribed; or

    (c) holds such other qualification in that profession which is in
        the opinion of the Council not lower in standing than a
        qualification mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b), and the
        person satisfies the Council that he or she has the
        knowledge and skills and has acquired the experience
        which is necessary for the practice of that profession,

and the person has been selected for employment in Singapore as an
allied health professional in an establishment approved by the
Council.

 (2) For the purpose of satisfying itself that a qualification in
subsection (1)(c) is not lower in standing than a qualification
mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b), the Council may require a
person to undergo and pass an examination conducted or arranged by
the Council or by such other person as the Council may appoint.

(3) Despite subsection (1), a person who —

    (a) holds any qualification recognised by the Council for the
         purposes of this subsection;

    (b) satisfies the Council that he or she has particular
         specialised knowledge and skill, and sufficient
         experience, in the practice of a prescribed allied health
         profession or any branch thereof; and

    (c) has been selected for employment in Singapore as an allied
        health professional in an establishment approved by the
        Council,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  18

may, if the Council thinks fit so to direct, be registered as an allied
health professional with conditional registration in that prescribed
allied health profession.

 (4) The Council may register a person under subsection (1) or (3)
for such period as the Council thinks fit, and the registration may be
renewed, at the discretion of the Council, for such further period or
periods as the Council thinks fit.

 (5) A person may be registered under subsection (1) subject to such
conditions and restrictions as the Council may impose.

 (6) Without limiting subsection (5), the Council may impose the
following conditions and restrictions:

(a) the person must work for a specified period in such
     establishment and under the supervision of such allied
     health professional who is registered with full or restricted
     registration in the same prescribed allied health profession
     as that of the person, as the Council may approve in order
     to acquire practical experience of such nature as the
     Council may determine;

(b) the degree of the supervision mentioned in paragraph (a)
     must meet such requirements as the Council may specify;

          (c) the person’s performance is subject to review by such
              allied health professional who is registered in the same
              prescribed allied health profession as that of the person, or
              by such healthcare professional, as the Council may
              approve;

(d) the particular employment or description of employment
     for the purposes of which the person is registered;

          (e) the particular establishment or description of
              establishments in which the person may practise the
              prescribed allied health profession;

          (f) the particular branch or area of the prescribed allied health
              profession in which the person may practise.

 (7) Without limiting sections 16 and 17, a person who is or has been
registered as an allied health professional with conditional

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

19  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

registration may, upon the revocation or lapsing of all the conditions
and restrictions imposed under subsection (5), apply to the Council to
be registered as an allied health professional with full or restricted
registration, and section 16 or 17 (as the case may be) applies
accordingly.

 (8) On an allied health professional with conditional registration
becoming any other type of registered allied health professional, his
or her name must be removed from the Register of Allied Health
Professionals with Conditional Registration.

 (9) Except with the approval of the Council, a person who has been
an allied health professional with conditional registration in a
prescribed allied health profession must not be registered again as
such in the same profession.

Temporary registration

 19.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person —

       (a) who is in Singapore for the exclusive purpose of teaching,
            research or postgraduate study in a prescribed allied health
            profession in an institution approved for that purpose by
            the Council;

       (b) who possesses knowledge, experience and skill in a
            prescribed allied health profession which the Council
            considers to be of international standing or are such as to
            have special value to the people of Singapore; or

       (c) who is not otherwise entitled to be registered as a
            registered allied health professional under section 16(1)
            or (2), 17(1) or 18(1) or (3) but who, in the opinion of the
            Council, possesses other qualifications and experience in a
            prescribed allied health profession which are adequate for
            the purposes of registration under this section,

may be registered as an allied health professional with temporary
registration in that profession for so long as the person continues to
engage himself or herself exclusively in teaching, research or
postgraduate study in that profession under such approved training

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  20

scheme in such approved institution, or in such healthcare capacity, as
the Council may specify.

 (2) The Council may require a person seeking registration under
subsection (1) to sit for and pass such examination as may be
prescribed by the Council.

 (3) Any registration under subsection (1) is for a period not
exceeding 2 years which may be renewed, at the discretion of the
Council, for a further period or periods each not exceeding
12 months.

 (4) A person may be registered under subsection (1) subject to such
conditions and restrictions as the Council may impose.

 (5) Without limiting subsection (4), the Council may impose the
following conditions and restrictions:

(a) the person must work for a specified period in such
     establishment and under the supervision of such allied
     health professional who is registered with full or restricted
     registration in the same prescribed allied health profession
     as that of the person, as the Council may approve;

(b) the degree of the supervision mentioned in paragraph (a)
     must meet such requirements as the Council may specify;

          (c) the person’s performance is subject to review by such
              allied health professional who is registered in the same
              prescribed allied health profession as that of the person, or
              by such healthcare professional, as the Council may
              approve;

(d) the particular employment or description of employment
     for the purposes of which the person is registered;

          (e) the particular establishment or description of
              establishments in which the person may practise the
              prescribed allied health profession;

          (f) the particular branch or area of the prescribed allied health
              profession which the person may practise.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

21  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

Power to amend, vary, rescind, revoke or suspend condition or
restriction

 20. To avoid doubt, the power of the Council to impose a condition
or restriction under section 17, 18 or 19 includes the power to amend,
vary, rescind, revoke or suspend that condition or restriction.

Application for registration

 21.—(1) An application for registration must be made in such form
and manner as the Council may determine and must be accompanied
by —

       (a) such documents and particulars as the Council may
            require; and

       (b) such fees as the Council may prescribe.

 (2) Before registering an applicant, the Council may require the
applicant to submit himself or herself to a medical examination by a
medical practitioner approved by the Council to determine if the
applicant is fit to practise as a registered allied health professional.

 (3) The costs of any medical examination mentioned in
subsection (2) must be borne by the applicant.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), where an applicant has complied with
subsection (1) and any requirement of the Council mentioned in
subsection (2), the Council may register him or her under section 16,
17, 18 or 19.

 (5) The Council may refuse to register any applicant who —

       (a) has had his or her registration as an allied health
            professional (or its equivalent) in any other country
            withdrawn, suspended or cancelled; or

       (b) in the opinion of the Council —

               (i) is not eligible to be registered;

              (ii) is not of good reputation and character;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  22

          (iii) is unfit to practise —

          (A) because his or her ability to practise has been
               impaired by reason of his or her physical or
               mental condition; or

          (B) for any other reason;

          (iv) has failed without reasonable cause to submit to a
               medical examination when required to do so under
               subsection (2);

          (v) has failed to comply with any condition or restriction
               of any previous registration that may have been
               imposed on him or her by the Council; or

          (vi) should not be registered because this would not be in
               the public interest.

 (6) Where the Council refuses to register an applicant, the Council
must by written notice inform the applicant of the refusal.

 (7) Any person who is aggrieved by any refusal of the Council
under subsection (5) may, within 30 days of the notice given under
subsection (6), appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (8) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Council may prescribe
different fees for different classes of applicants.

Certificate of registration

 22. Upon the registration of a person, the Council must issue to the
person a certificate of registration and specify in the certificate the
prescribed allied health profession for which the person is registered.

Practising certificate

 23.—(1) A registered allied health professional who desires to
obtain a practising certificate for the prescribed allied health
profession for which he or she is to be registered must make an
application to the Council in such form and manner as the Council
may require.

 (2) The application must be accompanied by the prescribed fee.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

23                     Act 2011                               2020 Ed.

 (3) A practising certificate is valid for such period as the Council
may determine.

 (4) An application for the renewal of a practising certificate must be
made no later than 30 days before the expiry of the practising
certificate and must be made in such form and manner as the Council
may prescribe.

 (5) A registered allied health professional who applies for a
practising certificate later than 30 days before the expiry of the
practising certificate shall be liable to pay to the Council such late
application fee as may be prescribed.

(6) The Council may —

    (a) refuse to grant a practising certificate to a registered allied
         health professional; or

    (b) refuse to renew the practising certificate of the registered
         allied health professional,

if the registered allied health professional fails to comply with any
condition that is prescribed by the Council with the approval of the
Minister for the purposes of this section.

 (7) Without limiting subsection (6) and section 75(2)(d), the
Council may, with the approval of the Minister, prescribe
conditions that require an applicant for the grant or renewal of a
practising certificate to —

    (a) submit such information or declaration (including a
         statutory declaration) as the Council may require; and

    (b) comply with such continuing professional education
         requirements as may be prescribed.

 (8) Where a person’s practising certificate is suspended or
cancelled under any provision of this Act, he or she must surrender
the certificate to the Council within 14 days after the suspension or
cancellation.

 (9) If a person’s registration has lapsed or the person has had his or
her name removed from a register or his or her registration suspended
under any provision of this Act, any practising certificate issued to
him or her is deemed to be cancelled and he or she must surrender the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  24

practising certificate to the Council within 14 days after the lapse,
removal or suspension.

 (10) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (8) or (9) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000.

Publication of list of duly qualified allied health professionals

 24. The Registrar must publish on the Council’s Internet website, or
on such other medium which is accessible to members of the public as
the Minister may require, a list of the names, practice addresses,
qualifications and dates of qualifications and registration of all duly
qualified allied health professionals.

Registered allied health professionals to use only qualifications
entered in registers and approved titles, etc.

 25.—(1) A registered allied health professional must not —

       (a) use or exhibit or publish in any card, letter, stationery,
            nameplate, signboard, placard, circular, handbill or any
            notice displayed at the premises used by him or her for the
            practice of any prescribed allied health profession any
            qualification other than the qualifications which are
            entered against his or her name in the appropriate
            register or which has been approved by the Council; or

       (b) use any title, addition or designation other than the title,
            addition or designation which has been approved by the
            Council.

 (2) Any registered allied health professional who contravenes
subsection (1) may be subject to disciplinary proceedings under this
Act.

Power of Council to remove names from registers

 26.—(1) Despite the provisions of this Act, the Council may, upon
such evidence as it may require, order the removal from the
appropriate register of the name of a registered allied health
professional under any of the following circumstances:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

25  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

    (a) if he or she has been registered with restricted, conditional
         or temporary registration, and has failed to comply with
         any condition or restriction to which his or her registration
         is subject;

    (b) if he or she has been registered with conditional or
         temporary registration, and the Council is of the opinion,
         having regard to any review by a person mentioned in
         section 18(6)(c) or 19(5)(c) (as the case may be), that he or
         she is unable to perform the duties of an allied health
         professional with conditional or temporary registration (as
         the case may be) satisfactorily;

    (c) if he or she has been registered with conditional
        registration and the Council is of the opinion, having
        regard to a report of an allied health professional
        supervising him or her pursuant to a condition
        mentioned in section 18(6)(a), that he or she is unable to
        perform the duties of an allied health professional with
        conditional registration satisfactorily;

    (d) if he or she has obtained his or her registration fraudulently
         or by an incorrect statement;

    (e) if his or her qualification for registration under this Act has
        been withdrawn or cancelled by the authority or institution
        of higher learning through which it was acquired or by
        which it was awarded;

    (f) if he or she has had his or her registration (or its equivalent)
        in any other country withdrawn, suspended or cancelled by
        the authority which registered him or her.

 (2) The Council must, before exercising its powers under
subsection (1), notify the registered allied health professional
concerned of its intention to take such action and must give the
registered allied health professional an opportunity to submit reasons
why his or her name should not be removed.

 (3) Any person who is aggrieved by any order of the Council under
subsection (1) may, within 30 days of being notified of the order,
appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  26

Restoration of name removed under section 26

 27.—(1) Where the name of a person has been removed from a
register under section 26(1)(a), (b) or (c), the Council may, on its own
motion or upon the application by the person —

(a) direct that his or her name be restored to the appropriate
     register; or

(b) register him or her as an allied health professional with
     restricted, conditional or temporary registration, and
     section 17(2) and (3), 18(4) to (9) or 19(3), (4) and (5)
     (as the case may be) applies accordingly.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) must not be made to the
Council more than once in any period of 6 months by or on behalf of
the person.

 (3) An application under subsection (1) must not be made to the
Council by or on behalf of the person unless the person has complied
with all the terms of the order made against him or her under
section 26(1), where applicable.

Registrar’s certificate

 28. A certificate purporting to be under the hand of the Registrar —

       (a) to the effect that at any time or during any period specified
            in the certificate any person was or was not a registered
            allied health professional or had or did not have in force a
            practising certificate; or

       (b) as to any entry in a register, or the removal from a register
            of any entry,

is, in the absence of proof to the contrary, and without further proof of
the signature appended to the certificate, sufficient evidence of the
matters specified in the certificate.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

27  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

    PART 4

    OFFENCES

False assumption of title by non‑duly qualified allied health
professional

 29.—(1) A person who is not a duly qualified allied health
professional shall be guilty of an offence if the person —

    (a) wilfully and falsely pretends to be a duly qualified allied
         health professional;

    (b) practises any prescribed allied health profession or a
         branch thereof, under the style or title of an allied health
         professional from a prescribed allied health profession or
         under any name, title, addition or description implying that
         he or she holds any diploma, degree or qualification in a
         prescribed allied health profession or in a branch thereof;

    (c) takes or uses any name or title set out in the second column
        of the Second Schedule, or any other word in any language
        having the same meaning or being to the like intent;

    (d) takes or uses any name, title, sign, uniform, badge, or any
         other addition or description implying, whether in itself or
         in the circumstances in which it is used, that he or she is
         qualified to practise a prescribed allied health profession or
         a branch thereof; or

    (e) advertises or holds himself or herself out as an allied health
        professional from a prescribed allied health profession.

 (2) Subsection (1)(d) does not apply to any act carried out by a
person in the course of the person’s training to become an allied
health professional, if that training is done under the supervision of a
registered allied health professional and in an establishment approved
by the Council.

 (3) It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under
subsection (1)(c), (d) or (e) to prove that the person acted without the
intention to deceive or to gain any advantage, benefit or financial gain
for a business, trade, profession, vocation or employment carried on
by the person.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  28

 (4) Subsection (3) does not apply to a person charged with an
offence under subsection (1)(e) if the person so advertised or held
himself or herself out in the prescribed circumstances.

False assumption of title by duly qualified allied health
professional

 30.—(1) A duly qualified allied health professional shall be guilty
of an offence if he or she —

       (a) wilfully and falsely pretends to be a duly qualified allied
            health professional from any prescribed allied health
            profession other than the one for which he or she is
            registered and issued a practising certificate (called in this
            section the authorised profession);

       (b) practises any prescribed allied health profession or a
            branch thereof under the style or title of an allied health
            professional from a prescribed allied health profession
            other than the authorised profession, or under any name,
            title, addition or description implying that he or she holds
            any diploma, degree or qualification in a prescribed allied
            health profession or a branch thereof other than the
            authorised profession;

       (c) takes or uses any name or title set out in the second column
            of the Second Schedule relating to a prescribed allied
            health profession other than the authorised profession, or
            any other word in any language having the same meaning
            or being to the like intent;

       (d) takes or uses any name, title, sign, uniform, badge, or any
            other addition or description implying, whether in itself or
            in the circumstances in which it is used, that he or she is
            qualified to practise a prescribed allied health profession or
            a branch thereof other than the authorised profession; or

       (e) advertises or holds himself or herself out as an allied health
            professional from any prescribed allied health profession
            other than the authorised profession.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

29  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

 (2) Subsection (1)(d) does not apply to any act carried out by a
person in the course of the person’s training to become an allied
health professional, if that training is done under the supervision of a
registered allied health professional and in an establishment approved
by the Council.

 (3) It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under
subsection (1)(c), (d) or (e) to prove that the person acted without the
intention to deceive or to gain any advantage, benefit or financial gain
for a business, trade, profession, vocation or employment carried on
by the person.

 (4) Subsection (3) does not apply to a person charged with an
offence under subsection (1)(e) if the person so advertised or held
himself or herself out in the prescribed circumstances.

Making representation of another

 31.—(1) A person shall be guilty of an offence if the person (A)
makes, with regard to another person (B), any representation which if
made by B with the requisite intent, would be an offence by B under
section 29 or 30.

 (2) It is a defence for a person (A) charged with an offence under
subsection (1) to prove that A acted without the intention to deceive or
to gain any advantage, benefit or financial gain for —

       (a) a business, trade, profession, vocation or employment
            carried on by A or a person on whose behalf A committed
            the act; or

       (b) if A or the person on whose behalf the act is committed is
            established for a charitable purpose or for purposes which
            include a charitable purpose, any activity carried out or
            service provided by A or the person for that purpose.

 (3) Where an offence is committed under section 29 or 30 by a
person (A) acting as an employee, an agent or a partner of another
person (B), B shall also be guilty of an offence.

 (4) It is a defence for a person (B) charged with an offence under
subsection (3) to prove that the firstmentioned offence was
committed without B’s knowledge and that B has taken all

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  30

reasonable precautions and exercised due diligence to prevent the
commission of that offence by A.

Causing or permitting another to make representation of
oneself

 32.—(1) A person shall be guilty of an offence if the person (A)
causes or permits another person (B) to make any representation
about A which, if made by A with the requisite intent, would be an
offence under section 29 or 30.

 (2) It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under
subsection (1) to prove that the person acted without the intention to
deceive or to gain any advantage, benefit or financial gain for a
business, trade, profession, vocation or employment carried on by the
person.

 (3) Subsection (2) does not apply to a person charged with an
offence under subsection (1) with respect to a representation referred
to in section 29(1)(e) or 30(1)(e) if the representation is made in the
prescribed circumstances.

Liability of registered allied health professional for enabling
another to act in contravention of section 29 or 30

 33.—(1) A registered allied health professional who, by his or her
presence, countenance, advice, assistance or cooperation, has
knowingly enabled a person, whether described as an assistant or
otherwise, to assume a title in contravention of section 29 or 30 shall
be guilty of an offence.

 (2) It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under
subsection (1) to prove that —

       (a) the commission of the offence was due to a mistake on the
            person’s part or to reliance on information supplied to the
            person or to the act of another person or some other cause
            beyond the person’s control; and

       (b) the person took all reasonable precautions and exercised
            due diligence to prevent the commission of the offence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

31  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

Suspended persons not to practise prescribed professions
during period of suspension

 34.—(1) Any person whose registration as a registered allied health
professional under this Act has been suspended under Part 5 must not
practise in any prescribed allied health profession during the period of
suspension.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

Fraudulent registration, etc.

 35.—(1) A person must not —

       (a) procure or attempt to procure registration as a registered
            allied health professional under this Act, a certificate of
            registration or a practising certificate, by knowingly
            making or producing or causing to be made or produced
            any false or fraudulent declaration, certificate, application
            or representation, whether in writing or otherwise;

       (b) wilfully make or cause to be made any false entry in a
            register;

       (c) forge or alter a certificate of registration or a practising
            certificate;

       (d) fraudulently or dishonestly use as genuine a certificate of
            registration or a practising certificate which he or she
            knows or has reason to believe is forged or altered; or

       (e) buy, sell or fraudulently obtain a certificate of registration
            or a practising certificate.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

General penalty

 36. Any person who is guilty of an offence under this Part shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $25,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both and, in
the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine not exceeding

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                   32

$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

                                    PART 5

    DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS, HEALTH COMMITTEE
       INQUIRIES AND PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENTS

           Division 1 — Voluntary removal, suspension, etc.

Voluntary removal, suspension, etc.

 37.—(1) A registered allied health professional who believes
that —

       (a) his or her fitness to practise is impaired by reason of his or
            her physical or mental condition; or

       (b) the quality of the professional services provided by him or
            her does not meet the standard which is reasonable to
            expect of an allied health professional,

may request the Council to do one or more of the following:

       (c) to remove his or her name from the appropriate register;

       (d) to suspend his or her registration in the appropriate register
            for a period of not more than 3 years;

       (e) where the registered allied health professional is an allied
            health professional with full registration, to remove his or
            her name from the Register of Allied Health Professionals
            with Full Registration and register him or her as an allied
            health professional with restricted or conditional
            registration in the prescribed allied health profession in
            which he or she is registered and with appropriate
            conditions or restrictions, and section 17(2) and (3) or
            18(4) to (9) (as the case may be) applies accordingly;

        (f) where the registered allied health professional is registered
            in any register other than the Register of Allied Health
            Professionals with Full Registration, to impose appropriate
            conditions or restrictions on his or her registration;

       (g) to suspend or cancel his or her practising certificate.

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

33  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

 (2) Subject to this section, if the Council and the registered allied
health professional agree in writing on the action to be taken under
subsection (1), the Council may proceed with the agreed course of
action.

(3) The Council must not take any action under this section if —

    (a) it believes that there is evidence of any of the matters
         mentioned in section 39(1)(a) or (b); or

    (b) proceedings have been commenced under Division 2 of
         this Part.

 (4) This section also applies where the Council has notified the
registered allied health professional under section 39(3)(b), except
that if the Council and the registered allied health professional are
unable to agree on the course of action to be taken under
subsection (1), the Council must proceed to refer the matter to the
Chairperson of the Complaints Panel under section 39(3)(a).

                                                                                                         [S 23/2025]

       Division 2 — Complaints and commencement of inquiry

Appointment of Complaints Panel

 38.—(1) For the purpose of enabling Complaints Committees and
Disciplinary Tribunals to be constituted in accordance with this Part,
the Council must appoint a panel (called in this Act the Complaints
Panel) consisting of —

       (a) a Chairperson and one or more Deputy Chairpersons, from
            among the members of the Council;

       (b) at least 10 and not more than 100 members, who are
            registered allied health professionals each of whom has at
            least 10 years’ experience in the practice of a prescribed
            allied health profession and is not a member of the
            Council; and

       (c) at least 6 and not more than 50 members, who are
            laypersons nominated by the Minister.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  34

 (2) The term of office of a member of the Complaints Panel
mentioned in subsection (1)(a) expires at the end of his or her term of
office as member of the Council.

 (3) The term of office of a member of the Complaints Panel
mentioned in subsection (1)(b) or (c) is to be determined by the
Council and must not exceed 2 years; and any such member is eligible
for re‑appointment.

 (4) The Council may at any time remove from office any member of
the Complaints Panel mentioned in subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c) or fill
any vacancy in its membership.

 (5) Any member of the Complaints Panel who is employed in the
Ministry of Health is not disqualified from being a member of any
Complaints Committee, Disciplinary Tribunal, Health Committee or
Interim Orders Committee by reason only that he or she is so
employed.

Complaints against registered allied health professionals, etc.

 39.—(1) Any —

       (a) complaint touching on the conduct of a registered allied
            health professional in his or her professional capacity or on
            his or her improper act or conduct which brings disrepute
            to his or her profession;

       (b) information on the conviction of a registered allied health
            professional of any offence in Singapore or elsewhere
            involving fraud or dishonesty, or implying a defect in
            character which makes him or her unfit for his or her
            profession;

       (c) complaint that the professional services provided by a
            registered allied health professional is not of the quality
            which is reasonable to expect of him or her; or

       (d) information touching on the physical or mental fitness to
            practise of a registered allied health professional,

must be made or referred to the Council in writing and supported by
such statutory declaration as the Council may require, except that no

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

35  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

statutory declaration is required if the complaint or information is
made or referred by any public officer or by the Council.

 (2) The Council must refer every complaint or information, other
than a complaint or information touching on the matters mentioned in
section 26, to the Chairperson of the Complaints Panel.

(3) The Council may, on its own motion —

    (a) make a complaint or refer any information on a registered
         allied health professional to the Chairperson of the
         Complaints Panel if it believes that there is evidence of
         any of the matters mentioned in subsection (1); or

    (b) notify the registered allied health professional and proceed
         under section 37(1)(c) to (g) if it believes that there is
         evidence of any of the matters mentioned in
         subsection (1)(c) or (d) and the registered allied health
         professional agrees thereto in writing.

 (4) Despite subsections (2) and (3), where a registered allied health
professional has been convicted in Singapore or elsewhere of an
offence implying a defect in character which makes him or her unfit
for his or her profession, the Council may immediately refer the
matter to a Disciplinary Tribunal under section 50.

Appointment of Complaints Committees

 40.—(1) The Chairperson of the Complaints Panel may appoint one
or more committees each comprising 3 members of the Complaints
Panel mentioned in section 38(1)(b) and (c) —

       (a) 2 of whom must be registered allied health professionals
            who are registered in the same allied health profession as
            the registered allied health professional being complained
            against; and

       (b) one of whom must be a layperson,

to be known for the purposes of this Act as Complaints Committees,
to inquire into any complaint or information mentioned in
section 39(1).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  36

 (2) The Chairperson of the Complaints Panel must appoint one of
the 2 registered allied health professionals mentioned in
subsection (1)(a) to be the chairperson of the Complaints Committee.

 (3) A Complaints Committee may be appointed in connection with
one or more matters or for such fixed period of time as the
Chairperson of the Complaints Panel may think fit.

 (4) The Chairperson of the Complaints Panel may at any time
revoke the appointment of a Complaints Committee or may remove
any member of a Complaints Committee or fill any vacancy in a
Complaints Committee.

 (5) No act done by or under the authority of a Complaints
Committee is invalid in consequence of any defect that is
subsequently discovered in the appointment or qualification of the
members or any of them.

 (6) All the members of a Complaints Committee must be present to
constitute a quorum for a meeting of the Complaints Committee.

 (7) Despite subsection (6), any resolution or decision in writing
signed by all the members of a Complaints Committee is as valid and
effectual as if it had been made or reached at a meeting of the
Complaints Committee where all its members were present.

 (8) A Complaints Committee may meet for the purposes of its
inquiry, adjourn and otherwise regulate the conduct of its inquiry as
its members may think fit.

 (9) The chairperson of a Complaints Committee may at any time
summon a meeting of the Complaints Committee.

 (10) All members of a Complaints Committee present at a meeting
thereof must vote on any question arising at the meeting and that
question is to be determined by a majority of votes and, in the case of
an equality of votes, the chairperson has a casting vote.

 (11) A member of a Complaints Committee, despite having ceased
to be a member of the Complaints Panel on the expiry of his or her
term of office, is deemed to be a member of the Complaints Panel
until such time as the Complaints Committee has completed its work.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

37  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

Referral to Complaints Committee, etc.

 41.—(1) Where any complaint or information mentioned in
section 39(1)(a), (b) or (c) is made or referred by the Council to
the Chairperson of the Complaints Panel, the Chairperson of the
Complaints Panel must lay the complaint or information before a
Complaints Committee.

 (2) Where any information mentioned in section 39(1)(d) is
referred by the Council to the Chairperson of the Complaints
Panel, the Chairperson of the Complaints Panel must —

    (a) if he or she is satisfied, based on any evidence given in
         support of the information, that a formal inquiry is
         necessary to determine the physical or mental fitness of
         the registered allied health professional to practise — refer
         the information to a Health Committee; or

    (b) in any other case — lay the information before a
         Complaints Committee.

Commencement of inquiry by Complaints Committee

 42.—(1) A Complaints Committee must, within 2 weeks of its
appointment, commence its inquiry into any complaint or
information, or any information or evidence mentioned in
section 44(5), and complete its inquiry not later than 3 months
after the date the complaint or information is laid before the
Complaints Committee.

 (2) Where a Complaints Committee is of the opinion that it will not
be able to complete its inquiry within the period specified in
subsection (1) due to the complexity of the matter or serious
difficulties encountered by the Complaints Committee in conducting
its inquiry, the Complaints Committee may apply in writing to the
Chairperson of the Complaints Panel for an extension of time to
complete its inquiry and the Chairperson may grant such extension of
time to the Complaints Committee as he or she thinks fit.

 (3) For the purposes of an inquiry, a Complaints Committee may
appoint one or more investigators in accordance with section 69 to
investigate the complaint or information, and the investigator may

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  38

exercise any one or more of the powers under that section in carrying
out his or her functions and duties under this Part.

(4) A Complaints Committee must —

(a) if it is unanimously of the opinion that the complaint or
     information is frivolous, vexatious, misconceived or
     lacking in substance — make an order under
     section 49(1)(i);

(b) if it is unanimously of the opinion that no investigation is
     necessary —

          (i) issue a letter of advice to the registered allied health
              professional; or

          (ii) refer the matter for mediation between the registered
               allied health professional and the complainant; or

          (c) in any other case — direct one or more investigators to
              carry out an investigation and make a report to it under
              section 48.

Mediation

 43.—(1) In referring a matter for mediation under
section 42(4)(b)(ii), the Complaints Committee may order the
personal attendance of the complainant and the registered allied
health professional before a mediator specified by the Complaints
Committee.

 (2) The mediator must submit a report to the Complaints
Committee on the outcome of the mediation.

 (3) If the complainant refuses or fails, without reasonable cause, to
comply with the order under subsection (1), the Complaints
Committee may dismiss the matter.

 (4) If the registered allied health professional refuses or fails,
without reasonable cause, to comply with the order under
subsection (1), the Complaints Committee may proceed to issue a
letter of advice under section 42(4)(b)(i) or make a direction under
section 42(4)(c).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

39  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

 (5) If for any reason the mediation does not take place or the matter
is not amicably resolved through mediation, the Complaints
Committee or another Complaints Committee appointed in its
place may issue a letter of advice under section 42(4)(b)(i) or make
a direction under section 42(4)(c) as it thinks fit.

 (6) Where the matter is amicably resolved through mediation, the
Complaints Committee or another Complaints Committee appointed
in its place may —

    (a) discontinue the matter; or

    (b) make such other order under section 49(1) as it thinks fit.

Conduct of investigation

 44.—(1) An investigator directed under section 42(4)(c) to
investigate any complaint or information must, if the investigator is
of the opinion that the registered allied health professional should be
called upon to answer any allegation made against him or her, give
written notice of the complaint or information to him or her.

 (2) A notice under subsection (1) must —

       (a) include copies of any complaint or information and of any
            statutory declaration or affidavit that have been made in
            support of the complaint or information; and

       (b) invite the registered allied health professional, within such
            period (being not less than 21 days from the date of the
            notice) as may be specified in the notice, to give to the
            investigator any written explanation he or she may wish to
            offer.

 (3) In the course of investigations, the Complaints Committee may
authorise the investigator in writing to —

       (a) in the case of a complaint mentioned in section 39(1)(c) —
            obtain the consent of the registered allied health
            professional to undergo a performance assessment in
            accordance with the provisions of Division 3; and

       (b) in the case of information mentioned in section 39(1)(d) —
            obtain the consent of the registered allied health

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  40

          professional to submit to a fitness assessment in
          accordance with the provisions of Division 3,

and the registered allied health professional must respond within such
reasonable time as the investigator may, in the notice, specify.

(4) If the registered allied health professional —

(a) declines to undergo a performance or fitness assessment
     requested under subsection (3);

(b) having agreed to undergo such an assessment,
     subsequently fails to participate in the assessment or
     refuses to cooperate with the assessors; or

          (c) does not respond to the notice within the time specified in
              subsection (3),

the investigator must make a report to the Complaints Committee
under section 48 and the Complaints Committee may proceed with
the inquiry and make such order as it deems fit under section 49(1)
or (2).

 (5) Where, in the course of an investigation, an investigator
receives information touching on, or obtains evidence of, the
conduct, physical or mental fitness, or professional performance —

(a) of the registered allied health professional concerned,
     which is outside the subject matter of the complaint or
     information referred to the investigator; or

(b) of a registered allied health professional other than the
     registered allied health professional concerned,

which may give rise to proceedings under this Part, the investigator
must make a report of this to the Complaints Committee under
section 48.

 (6) On receiving a report under subsection (5), the Complaints
Committee must —

(a) if it is unanimously of the opinion that the complaint or
     information is frivolous, vexatious, misconceived or
     lacking in substance, make an order under
     section 49(1)(i); or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

41  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) if it believes there is evidence of any of the matters
         mentioned in section 39(1) —

    (i) direct one or more investigators to carry out an
        investigation and make a report to it under
        section 48; or

    (ii) refer the matter to the Chairperson of the Complaints
         Panel and the Chairperson must act in accordance
         with section 41 by referring the complaint or
         information to a Health Committee or laying it
         before a different Complaints Committee, as the case
         may be.

          Division 3 — Performance and fitness assessments

Performance assessment

 45.—(1) If the registered allied health professional agrees to
undergo a performance assessment under section 44(3)(a), the
quality of professional services provided by him or her must be
assessed by a Performance Assessment Panel appointed by the
Complaints Committee and comprising one or more suitably
qualified persons as the Complaints Committee may determine.

 (2) The Performance Assessment Panel must carry out the
performance assessment in accordance with —

       (a) the provisions of this Division;

       (b) the practice and procedure as the Council may determine;
            and

       (c) such instructions as the Complaints Committee may issue.

 (3) The registered allied health professional under assessment must,
if required by the Performance Assessment Panel —

       (a) produce to the Panel or give the Panel access to any record
            or other document specified by the Panel or any record or
            other document which is of a class or description so
            specified and which is in his or her possession or under his
            or her control, being in either case a record or other
            document which the Panel reasonably believes is or may be

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  42

          relevant to the performance assessment, within such time
          and at such place as the Panel may reasonably require;

(b) give to the Panel such explanation or further particulars in
     respect of anything produced in compliance with a
     requirement under paragraph (a) as the Panel may
     specify; and

          (c) give to the Panel all assistance in connection with the
              performance assessment which he or she is reasonably able
              to give.

 (4) Where any information or matter relevant to a performance
assessment is recorded otherwise than in a legible form, the power of
a Performance Assessment Panel to require the production of any
record or other document conferred under subsection (3)(a) includes
the power to require the production of a reproduction of any such
information or matter or of the relevant part of it in a legible form.

 (5) A Performance Assessment Panel may inspect, examine, make
copies of or take any abstract of or extract from any record or
document produced under subsection (3)(a) or (4).

 (6) The Performance Assessment Panel must give a report of the
assessment to the Complaints Committee and, with the approval of
the Complaints Committee, the registered allied health professional.

 (7) The Complaints Committee, or the investigator with the
approval of the Complaints Committee, may discuss the report
with the registered allied health professional under assessment and, in
the case of an adverse finding in the report, the possible ways of
dealing with that finding.

Fitness assessment

 46.—(1) If the registered allied health professional agrees to submit
to a fitness assessment under section 44(3)(b), his or her fitness to
practise the prescribed allied health profession by reason of his or her
physical or mental condition must be assessed by a Fitness
Assessment Panel appointed by the Complaints Committee and
comprising one or more suitably qualified persons as the Complaints
Committee may determine.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

43  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

 (2) The Fitness Assessment Panel must carry out the fitness
assessment in accordance with —

    (a) the provisions of this Division;

    (b) the practice and procedure as the Council may determine;
         and

    (c) such instructions as the Complaints Committee may issue.

 (3) The Fitness Assessment Panel must submit a report of the
assessment to the Complaints Committee and, with the approval of
the Complaints Committee, provide a copy of the report to the
registered allied health professional.

 (4) The Complaints Committee, or the investigator with the
approval of the Complaints Committee, may discuss the report
with the registered allied health professional under assessment and, in
the case of an adverse finding in the report, the possible ways of
dealing with that finding.

Confidentiality of information

 47.—(1) A person to whom this section applies is not compellable
in any proceedings to give evidence in respect of, or to produce any
document containing any information which has been obtained in the
course of, a performance or fitness assessment except in the case of
the following:

       (a) an inquiry by a Complaints Committee, a Disciplinary
            Tribunal, a Health Committee or an Interim Orders
            Committee; or

       (b) a prosecution for a criminal offence.

 (2) A person to whom this section applies must not disclose any
information contained in any document that may have come to his or
her knowledge in the course of a performance or fitness assessment
unless the disclosure is made —

       (a) under or for the purpose of administering and enforcing
            this Act or the Infectious Diseases Act 1976; or

       (b) for any other purpose with the consent of the person to
            whom the information relates.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  44

(3) This section applies to —

(a) a member of a Performance or Fitness Assessment Panel;

(b) an investigator mentioned in section 42(4)(c) or
     44(6)(b)(i);

          (c) a member of a Complaints Committee, Disciplinary
              Tribunal, Health Committee or an Interim Orders
              Committee; and

(d) a member, an officer or an agent of the Council.

                Division 4 — Powers after investigation

Investigation report and deliberation by Complaints
Committee

 48.—(1) Upon completing an investigation into any complaint or
information, the investigator must submit a report on the findings of
the investigation to the Complaints Committee for its deliberation.

 (2) The report mentioned in subsection (1) must include —

       (a) any written explanation given by the registered allied
            health professional after receiving a notice under
            section 44(1);

       (b) any assessment report made under Division 3, if a
            performance or fitness assessment was undertaken; and

       (c) any recommendation on the necessity or otherwise of a
            formal inquiry by a Disciplinary Tribunal or Health
            Committee.

 (3) A person must not disclose the contents of the investigation
report or any information contained in any document which was
obtained in the course of an investigation or inquiry commenced
under this Part to any other person, including the registered allied
health professional, except —

       (a) where the Complaints Committee in its absolute discretion
            thinks otherwise; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

45  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) where such disclosure is required for the purpose of
         administering and enforcing this Act or the Infectious
         Diseases Act 1976.

 (4) The Complaints Committee may, in the course of its
deliberations and before it reaches a decision, seek such legal
advice as it thinks necessary.

 (5) The registered allied health professional concerned does not
have the right to be heard by the Complaints Committee, whether in
person or by counsel, unless the Complaints Committee in its
absolute discretion otherwise allows.

Findings of Complaints Committee

 49.—(1) After deliberation of the investigation report and any
recommendation of an investigator made under section 48, and upon
due inquiry into the complaint or information (including any
information or evidence mentioned in section 44(5)), a Complaints
Committee may, if it is of the view that no formal inquiry by a
Disciplinary Tribunal or Health Committee is necessary, do one or
more of the following:

       (a) issue a letter of advice to the registered allied health
            professional;

       (b) issue a letter of warning to the registered allied health
            professional;

       (c) order that the registered allied health professional seek and
            undergo medical or psychiatric treatment or counselling;

       (d) order that the registered allied health professional
            undertake and complete specified further education or
            training within a specified period;

       (e) order that the registered allied health professional report on
            the status of the fitness of his or her physical or mental
            condition or on the status of his or her practice at such
            times, in such manner and to such persons as the
            Complaints Committee may specify;

        (f) order that the registered allied health professional seek and
            take advice, in relation to the management of his or her

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  46

          practice, from such persons as the Complaints Committee
          may specify;

(g) by agreement with the registered allied health
     professional —

          (i) order the Registrar to remove the name of the
              registered allied health professional from the
              appropriate register;

          (ii) suspend the registration of the registered allied
               health professional from the appropriate register
               for a period not exceeding 3 years;

          (iii) where the registered allied health professional is an
                allied health professional with full registration —
                order the Registrar to remove his or her name from
                the Register of Allied Health Professionals with Full
                Registration and register him or her as an allied
                health professional with restricted or conditional
                registration in the prescribed allied health profession
                in which he or she is registered and with appropriate
                conditions or restrictions, and section 17(2) and (3)
                or 18(4) to (9) (as the case may be) applies
                accordingly;

          (iv) where the registered allied health professional is
               registered in any register other than the Register of
               Allied Health Professionals with Full Registration —
               impose appropriate conditions or restrictions on his
               or her registration; or

          (v) order that his or her practising certificate be
               suspended or cancelled;

(h) refer the matter for mediation between the registered allied
     health professional and the complainant;

          (i) order that the complaint or matter be dismissed;

          (j) make such other order as it thinks fit.

 (2) Where a Complaints Committee determines that a formal
inquiry is necessary, it may order —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

47  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

    (a) that an inquiry be held by a Health Committee if the
         complaint, information or evidence touches on the physical
         or mental fitness of the registered allied health professional
         to practise; or

    (b) that a formal inquiry be held by a Disciplinary Tribunal.

 (3) Where a Complaints Committee has made an order under
subsection (2) or (6) for a formal inquiry to be held by a Disciplinary
Tribunal or Health Committee, the Council must appoint a
Disciplinary Tribunal or Health Committee (as the case may be) to
hear and investigate the complaint or matter.

 (4) Where a Complaints Committee has decided to issue a letter of
advice, the chairperson of the Complaints Committee must issue the
letter of advice in such terms as it thinks fit.

 (5) Where a Complaints Committee has referred the matter for
mediation, section 43 applies with the necessary modifications and
references in section 43(4) and (5) to section 42(4)(b)(i) or (c) are to
be read as references to section 49(1) or (2), respectively.

 (6) Where the registered allied health professional in respect of
whom an order is made under subsection (1)(c), (d), (e) or (f) is found
by a Complaints Committee (whether it is the Complaints Committee
that made the order or another Complaints Committee appointed in its
place) to have failed to comply with any of the requirements imposed
on him or her, the Complaints Committee may, if it thinks fit, order
that a formal inquiry be held by a Disciplinary Tribunal or Health
Committee (as the case may be) in respect of the complaint,
information or evidence.

 (7) Where, in the course of an inquiry, a Complaints Committee
receives information touching on, or evidence of, the conduct of the
registered allied health professional concerned which discloses an
offence under any written law, the Complaints Committee must
record the information and report it to the Council.

 (8) Where the complainant withdraws his or her complaint
before —

    (a) it is referred to a Complaints Committee, Disciplinary
         Tribunal or Health Committee under this section; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  48

(b) the conclusion of the inquiry by a Complaints Committee,
     Disciplinary Tribunal or Health Committee,

the Council may, despite the withdrawal, refer the complaint to or
direct a Complaints Committee, Disciplinary Tribunal or Health
Committee to continue the inquiry (as the case may be) and the
Chairperson of the Complaints Panel, or the Complaints Committee,
Disciplinary Tribunal or Health Committee (as the case may be) must
comply with such direction as if the complaint had been made by the
Council.

 (9) A Complaints Committee must notify the registered allied
health professional concerned and the person who made the
complaint or referred the information under section 39(1) of its
decision under subsection (1) or (2) and, if it makes an order under
subsection (1), the reason for making the order.

 (10) A registered allied health professional who is aggrieved by any
order of a Complaints Committee under subsection (1) may, within
30 days of being notified of the determination of the Complaints
Committee, appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (11) If the person who made the complaint or referred the
information to the Council is dissatisfied with any order of a
Complaints Committee under subsection (1), he or she may, within
30 days of being notified of the determination of the Complaints
Committee, appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (12) If the Council is dissatisfied with any order of a Complaints
Committee under subsection (1) in a case where a complaint is made
on any matter or information is referred to the Chairperson of the
Complaints Panel under subsection (8) or section 37(4), 39(3)(a) or
44(6), the Council may, within 30 days after being notified of the
determination of the Complaints Committee, appeal to the Minister
whose decision is final.

(13) The Minister may, after considering the appeal, make —

(a) an order affirming the determination of a Complaints
     Committee;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

49  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) an order directing a Complaints Committee to immediately
         appoint one or more investigators for the purposes of
         carrying out an investigation under section 42(4)(c);

    (c) an order directing the Council to —

    (i) immediately appoint a Disciplinary Tribunal to hear
        and investigate the complaint or matter; or

    (ii) order that an inquiry into such matter be held by a
         Health Committee; or

    (d) such other order as the Minister thinks fit.

 (14) Every Complaints Committee must immediately report to the
Council its findings and the order or orders made.

                   Division 5 — Disciplinary Tribunals

Disciplinary Tribunal

 50.—(1) The Council may from time to time appoint one or more
Disciplinary Tribunals, each comprising —

       (a) a chairperson, from a panel appointed by the Minister, who
            is —

               (i) a registered allied health professional who has
                   practised for at least 15 years in the same
                   prescribed allied health profession as that which
                   the registered allied health professional being
                   complained against is registered in;

              (ii) a person who has at any time held office as a
                   Supreme Court Judge or a Judicial Commissioner; or

             (iii) a person who has had —

                    (A) an aggregate of at least 15 years’ standing as an
                          advocate and solicitor;

                     (B) an aggregate of at least 15 years of full‑time
                          employment as a Judicial Service Officer or
                          Legal Service Officer (or both); or

                                                                               [Act 33 of 2021 wef 14/01/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  50

          (C) any combination of standing mentioned in
               sub‑paragraph (A) and employment
               mentioned in sub‑paragraph (B) which in the
               aggregate is not less than 15 years;

(b) a registered allied health professional from among
     members of the Complaints Panel, who has practised for
     at least 10 years in the same prescribed allied health
     profession as that which the registered allied health
     professional being complained against is registered in;

          (c) a member who is —

          (i) where the chairperson is a registered allied health
              professional, either —

          (A) another registered allied health professional as
               described in paragraph (b); or

          (B) a person described in paragraph (a)(ii) or (iii);
               or

          (ii) where the chairperson is a person described in
               paragraph (a)(ii) or (iii), another registered allied
               health professional as described in paragraph (b);
               and

(d) where the chairperson is a registered allied health
     professional and the member mentioned in
     paragraph (c)(i) is that described in sub‑paragraph (A) of
     that paragraph, one observer from among members of the
     Complaints Panel who is a layperson,

to inquire into any matter in respect of which a Complaints
Committee has under section 49(2)(b) ordered that a formal inquiry
be held, any matter which it is directed to hear and investigate under
section 49(13)(c), or any matter referred to the Disciplinary Tribunal
under section 39(4).

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) Despite subsection (1), if, in the Minister’s opinion, it is
inexpedient, difficult or impracticable to make an appointment under
subsection (1)(a)(i), (b) or (c)(i)(A) or (ii) because of the requirement
that the appointee must have practised for at least 15 or 10 years (as

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

51  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

the case may be) in the same prescribed allied health profession as
that which the registered allied health professional being complained
against is registered in, the Minister may appoint a registered allied
health professional who has practised in that profession for less than
those number of years.

 (3) Despite subsection (1), if, in the Minister’s opinion, due to the
nature of the issues likely to be raised at the inquiry, it is unnecessary
for the chairperson under subsection (1)(a)(i) or a member under
subsection (1)(b) or (c)(i)(A) or (ii) to have practised in the same
prescribed allied health profession as that which the registered allied
health professional being complained against is registered in, the
Minister may appoint —

    (a) a registered allied health professional from another
         prescribed allied health profession; or

    (b) a person permitted under any other written law to practise
         in any other healthcare profession in Singapore,

who has practised in that other profession for any number of years, as
the chairperson or member.

 (4) A member of a Complaints Committee inquiring into any matter
concerning a registered allied health professional must not be a
member of a Disciplinary Tribunal inquiring into the same matter.

 (5) The observer appointed under subsection (1)(d) must not vote
on any question or matter to be decided by the Disciplinary Tribunal
and need not be present at every meeting of the Disciplinary Tribunal.

 (6) A Disciplinary Tribunal may be appointed in connection with
one or more matters or for a fixed period of time as the Council may
think fit.

 (7) The Council may at any time revoke the appointment of a
Disciplinary Tribunal or may remove any member of a Disciplinary
Tribunal or fill any vacancy in a Disciplinary Tribunal.

 (8) Without limiting subsection (7), where, after a Disciplinary
Tribunal has commenced the hearing and investigation of a matter,
any member of the Disciplinary Tribunal is unable through death,
illness or any other cause to continue with the hearing and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  52

investigation of the matter, the Council may fill the vacancy or
appoint another Disciplinary Tribunal to continue the hearing and
investigation of the matter.

 (9) The Disciplinary Tribunal so reconstituted or appointed under
subsection (8) —

(a) may, with the consent of the Council and the registered
     allied health professional being complained against and
     who is represented by counsel, continue with the hearing as
     if the Disciplinary Tribunal had not been reconstituted or
     appointed, and when so hearing the Disciplinary Tribunal
     must have regard to the evidence given, the arguments
     adduced and any orders made during the proceedings
     before the previous Disciplinary Tribunal; and

(b) must, in any other case, hear and investigate the matter
     afresh.

 (10) The production of any written instrument purporting to be
signed by the Council and making an appointment, revocation or
removal under this section is evidence that the appointment,
revocation or removal has been duly made.

 (11) Every member of a Disciplinary Tribunal appointed under
subsection (1) must be paid such remuneration as the Council may
determine.

 (12) No act done by or under the authority of a Disciplinary
Tribunal is invalid in consequence of any defect that is subsequently
discovered in the appointment or qualification of the members or any
of them.

 (13) Subject to subsection (5), all members of a Disciplinary
Tribunal must be personally present at any meeting thereof to
constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business.

 (14) Subject to subsection (5), all members of a Disciplinary
Tribunal present at any meeting thereof must vote on any question
arising at the meeting and that question is to be determined by a
majority of votes and, in the case of an equality of votes —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

53  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

    (a) where the chairperson is a registered allied health
         professional — the chairperson has a casting vote; or

    (b) where the chairperson is a person described in
         subsection (1)(a)(ii) or (iii) — the question must be
         resolved in favour of the registered allied health
         professional concerned.

Proceedings of Disciplinary Tribunal

 51.—(1) A Disciplinary Tribunal is to meet from time to time to
inquire into a matter referred to it by the Council and may regulate its
own procedure.

 (2) A member of a Disciplinary Tribunal, despite having ceased to
be a member of the Complaints Panel or a panel mentioned in
section 50(1)(a) on the expiry of his or her term of office, continues to
be a member of the Disciplinary Tribunal until such time as the
Disciplinary Tribunal has completed its work.

 (3) The registered allied health professional concerned may appear
in person or be represented by counsel.

 (4) A Disciplinary Tribunal is not bound to act in a formal manner
and is not bound by the provisions of the Evidence Act 1893 or by any
other law relating to evidence but may inform itself on any matter in
such manner as it thinks fit.

 (5) A Disciplinary Tribunal may, for the purposes of any
proceedings before it, administer oaths, and any party to the
proceedings may take out a subpoena to testify or a subpoena to
produce documents.

 (6) A subpoena under subsection (5) must be served and may be
enforced as if it were an order to attend court or an order to produce
documents issued in connection with a civil action in the General
Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (7) A person giving evidence before a Disciplinary Tribunal is
legally bound to tell the truth.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  54

 (8) A witness has the same privileges and immunities in relation to
hearings before a Disciplinary Tribunal as if those hearings were
proceedings in a court of law.

 (9) A Disciplinary Tribunal must carry out its work expeditiously
and may apply to the Council for an extension of time and for
directions to be given to the Disciplinary Tribunal if the Disciplinary
Tribunal fails to make its finding and order within 6 months from the
date of its appointment.

 (10) When an application for extension of time has been made
under subsection (9), the Council may grant an extension of time for
such period as it thinks fit.

 (11) In sections 172, 173, 174, 175, 177, 179, 182 and 228 of the
Penal Code 1871, “public servant” is deemed to include a member of
a Disciplinary Tribunal taking part in any investigation under this
section, and in sections 193 and 228 of the Penal Code 1871, “judicial
proceeding” is deemed to include any such investigation.

Referral and transfer of cases to Health Committee

 52.—(1) Where, in the course of inquiring into the case of a
registered allied health professional, it appears to a Disciplinary
Tribunal that his or her fitness to practise may be impaired by reason
of his or her physical or mental condition, the Disciplinary Tribunal
may refer that question to a Health Committee for determination.

 (2) If, on a referral under this section, the Health Committee
determines that the fitness of the registered allied health professional
to practise is not impaired by reason of his or her physical or mental
condition, the Health Committee must certify its opinion to the
Disciplinary Tribunal.

 (3) If, on a referral under this section, the Health Committee
determines that the fitness of the registered allied health professional
to practise is impaired by reason of his or her physical or mental
condition, the Health Committee must —

       (a) certify its opinion to the Disciplinary Tribunal; and

       (b) proceed to dispose of the case in accordance with
            section 58,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

55  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

and the Disciplinary Tribunal ceases to exercise its function in
relation to the case.

Findings of Disciplinary Tribunal

 53.—(1) Where a registered allied health professional is found by a
Disciplinary Tribunal —

       (a) to have been convicted in Singapore or elsewhere of any
            offence involving fraud or dishonesty;

       (b) to have been convicted in Singapore or elsewhere of any
            offence implying a defect in character which makes him or
            her unfit for his or her profession;

       (c) to have been guilty of such improper act or conduct which,
            in the opinion of the Disciplinary Tribunal, brings
            disrepute to his or her profession;

       (d) to have been guilty of professional misconduct; or

       (e) to have failed to provide professional services of the
            quality which is reasonable to expect of him or her,

the Disciplinary Tribunal may exercise one or more of its powers
under subsection (2).

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Disciplinary Tribunal
may —

       (a) by order direct the Registrar to remove the name of the
            registered allied health professional from the appropriate
            register;

       (b) by order suspend the registration of the registered allied
            health professional in the appropriate register for a period
            of at least 3 months and not more than 3 years;

       (c) where the registered allied health professional is an allied
            health professional with full registration, by order direct
            the Registrar to remove his or her name from the Register
            of Allied Health Professionals with Full Registration and
            register him or her as an allied health professional with
            restricted or conditional registration in the prescribed allied
            health profession in which he or she is registered and with

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  56

          appropriate conditions or restrictions, and section 17(2)
          and (3) or 18(4) to (9) (as the case may be) applies
          accordingly;

(d) where the registered allied health professional is registered
     in any register other than the Register of Allied Health
     Professionals with Full Registration, by order impose
     appropriate conditions or restrictions on his or her
     registration;

          (e) by order impose on the registered allied health professional
              a penalty not exceeding $50,000;

          (f) by writing censure the registered allied health professional;

(g) by order require the registered allied health professional to
     give such undertaking as the Disciplinary Tribunal thinks
     fit to abstain in future from the conduct complained of; or

(h) make such other order as the Disciplinary Tribunal thinks
     fit, including any order that a Complaints Committee may
     make under section 49(1).

 (3) In any proceedings instituted under this Part against a registered
allied health professional consequent upon his or her conviction for a
criminal offence, a Disciplinary Tribunal and the General Division of
the High Court on appeal from any order of a Disciplinary Tribunal
are to accept his or her conviction as final and conclusive.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (4) Where a registered allied health professional is not found by a
Disciplinary Tribunal to have been convicted or guilty of any matter
mentioned in subsection (1), the Disciplinary Tribunal must dismiss
the complaint or matter.

 (5) A Disciplinary Tribunal may under subsection (2) order the
registered allied health professional concerned to pay to the Council
such sums as it thinks fit in respect of costs and expenses of and
incidental to any proceedings before the Disciplinary Tribunal and,
where applicable, an Interim Orders Committee.

 (6) The General Division of the High Court has jurisdiction to tax
the costs mentioned in subsection (5) and any such order for costs

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

57  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

made is enforceable as if it were ordered in connection with a civil
action in the General Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (7) The Disciplinary Tribunal in ordering that costs be paid by the
registered allied health professional under this section may certify
that costs for more than one solicitor be paid if it is satisfied that the
issues involved in the proceedings are of sufficient complexity, and
the certification by the Disciplinary Tribunal has the same effect as if
it were a certification by a Judge in a civil action in the General
Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (8) The costs and expenses mentioned in subsection (5) include —

    (a) the costs and expenses of any assessor and advocate and
         solicitor appointed by the Council for proceedings before
         the Disciplinary Tribunal and the Interim Orders
         Committee;

    (b) such reasonable expenses as the Council may pay to
         witnesses; and

    (c) such reasonable expenses as are necessary for the conduct
        of proceedings before the Disciplinary Tribunal and the
        Interim Orders Committee.

 (9) The penalty under subsection (2)(e) is recoverable as a debt due
to the Government.

Effective dates of Disciplinary Tribunal orders and
non‑compliance with orders, etc.

 54.—(1) Where a registered allied health professional in respect of
whom an order under section 53(2)(c) or (d), 61(1)(b) or 63(1)(d) is
made, is found by a Disciplinary Tribunal (whether, in the case of an
order under section 53(2)(c) or (d), it is the Disciplinary Tribunal that
made the order or another Disciplinary Tribunal appointed in its
place) to have failed to comply with any of the requirements imposed
on him or her as conditions or restrictions of his or her registration,
the Disciplinary Tribunal may, if it thinks fit, by order —

       (a) direct the Registrar to remove his or her name from the
            appropriate register; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  58

(b) suspend his or her registration in the appropriate register
     for such period not exceeding 12 months as may be
     specified in the order.

 (2) Where a Disciplinary Tribunal has made an order for suspension
under subsection (1)(b) or section 53(2)(b), the Disciplinary Tribunal
may make an order under section 53(2)(c) or (d), to take effect from
the expiry of the current period of suspension.

 (3) Where a Disciplinary Tribunal has made an order for suspension
under subsection (1)(b) or section 53(2)(b) against a registered allied
health professional and he or she has failed to comply with that order,
the Disciplinary Tribunal or another Disciplinary Tribunal appointed
in its place may, if it thinks fit —

(a) by order direct the Registrar to remove his or her name
     from the appropriate register; or

(b) make an order under section 53(2)(c) or (d), to take effect
     from the expiry of the current period of suspension.

 (4) Where a Disciplinary Tribunal has made an order under
section 53(2)(c) or (d), the Disciplinary Tribunal or another
Disciplinary Tribunal appointed in its place may revoke the order
or revoke or vary any of the conditions or restrictions imposed by the
order.

 (5) Subsection (1) applies to a registered allied health professional
whose registration is subject to conditions or restrictions imposed by
an order made under subsection (2) or (3) as it applies to a registered
allied health professional whose registration is subject to conditions
or restrictions imposed by an order made under section 53(2)(c) or
(d), and subsection (4) applies accordingly.

 (6) Where a Disciplinary Tribunal has made an order under
section 53 or this section, or has varied the conditions or
restrictions imposed by an order under this section, the Registrar
must immediately serve on the registered allied health professional
and on the complainant a notice of the order or the variation.

 (7) Subject to subsection (8), an order made by a Disciplinary
Tribunal for the removal of the name of a registered allied health
professional from the appropriate register or for the suspension of his

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

59  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

or her registration under subsection (1) or (3) or section 53(2) does
not take effect until the expiry of 30 days after the order is made.

 (8) On making an order for the removal of the name of a registered
allied health professional from the appropriate register or for the
suspension of his or her registration under subsection (1) or (3) or
section 53(2), a Disciplinary Tribunal, if satisfied that to do so is
necessary for the protection of members of the public or would be in
the best interests of the registered allied health professional
concerned, may order the Registrar to remove his or her name
from the register or that his or her registration in the register be
suspended immediately.

 (9) Where an order under subsection (8) is made, the Registrar must
immediately serve a notice of the order on the person to whom it
applies and —

    (a) if that person was present or represented at the proceedings
         of the Disciplinary Tribunal, the order takes effect from the
         time the order is made; or

    (b) if that person was neither present nor represented at the
         proceedings of the Disciplinary Tribunal, the order takes
         effect from the date the notice is served on him or her.

 (10) An order of a Disciplinary Tribunal, other than an order for the
removal of a name or for the suspension of a registration under
subsection (1) or (3) or section 53(2)(a) or (b), takes effect from the
date the order is made.

 (11) While any order of suspension of registration remains in force,
the person concerned is not to be regarded as being registered, even
though the person’s name still appears in a register, but immediately
on the expiry of the order, the person’s rights and privileges as a
registered allied health professional are revived as from the date of
the expiry provided that the registered allied health professional has
complied with all the terms of the order.

Appeal against order by Disciplinary Tribunal

 55.—(1) A registered allied health professional or the Council who
is dissatisfied with a decision of the Disciplinary Tribunal mentioned

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  60

in section 53(2), (4) or (5) or 54 (called in this section the decision of
the Disciplinary Tribunal) may, within 30 days after the notice of the
order is served on the registered allied health professional, appeal to
the General Division of the High Court against the order (called in
this section an appeal to the General Division of the High Court).

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) A complainant who is dissatisfied with the decision of the
Disciplinary Tribunal may, within 30 days from the lapse of the
period for appeal in subsection (1), provided the complainant has not
received notice of the Council’s decision to file an appeal to the
General Division of the High Court, apply to a Review Committee to
direct the Council to file an appeal to the General Division of the High
Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) For the purposes of hearing applications under subsection (2),
the Minister may appoint one or more Review Committees, each
comprising —

(a) one member from the panel mentioned in section 50(1)(a);
     and

(b) 2 members who are registered allied health professionals,
     each of whom has practised for at least 10 years in the same
     prescribed allied health profession as that which the
     registered allied health professional is registered in.

 (4) The chairperson of a Review Committee must be appointed by
the Minister from among its 3 members.

 (5) A Review Committee is not bound by the rules of evidence and
may regulate its own proceedings.

 (6) Upon an application under subsection (2), the Review
Committee may, if it is unanimously of the opinion that there are
sufficient grounds for the decision of the Disciplinary Tribunal to be
appealed against to the General Division of the High Court, direct the
Council to file an appeal to the General Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (7) Before exercising its power under subsection (6), the Review
Committee must give to both the Council and the registered allied
health professional concerned a reasonable opportunity to make

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

61  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

representations in writing as to why the Review Committee should
not make a direction under subsection (6).

(8) The Review Committee’s decision under subsection (6) is final.

 (9) If the Review Committee directs the Council to file an appeal to
the General Division of the High Court, the Council must do so within
14 days of the receipt of the direction notwithstanding the expiry of
the period of 30 days mentioned in subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (10) An appeal under this section is to be heard by the General
Division of the High Court and from the decision of the General
Division of the High Court there is no appeal.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (11) The procedure governing any such appeal to the General
Division of the High Court is as provided for in the Rules of Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (12) In any appeal to the General Division of the High Court against
a decision mentioned in section 53(2), (4) or (5) or 54, the General
Division of the High Court is to accept as final and conclusive any
finding of the Disciplinary Tribunal relating to any issue of medical
ethics or standards of professional conduct unless such finding is in
the opinion of the General Division of the High Court unsafe,
unreasonable or contrary to the evidence.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (13) Despite anything in section 53 or 54, where a registered allied
health professional has appealed to the General Division of the High
Court against an order mentioned in section 53(2) or 54, the order
does not take effect unless the order is confirmed by the General
Division of the High Court or the appeal is for any reason dismissed
by the General Division of the High Court or is withdrawn.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Restoration of names to register

 56.—(1) Where the name of a registered allied health professional
has been removed from a register pursuant to an order made by a
Disciplinary Tribunal under section 53 or 54, the Council may, on its
own motion or upon his or her application —

       (a) direct that his or her name be restored to the register; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  62

(b) direct that he or she be registered with restricted,
     conditional or temporary registration, and section 17(2)
     and (3), 18(4) to (9) or 19(3), (4) and (5) (as the case may
     be) applies accordingly.

 (2) An application for the restoration of a name to a register under
this section must not be made to the Council —

(a) before the expiry of 3 years from the date of the removal;
     or

(b) more than once in any period of 12 months by or on behalf
     of the person,

and unless the person has complied with all the terms of the order
made against him or her.

                     Division 6 — Health Committee

Health Committee

 57.—(1) The Council may, from time to time, appoint one or more
Health Committees, each comprising at least 3 persons, of whom —

       (a) at least one is a registered allied health professional who
            has practised for at least 15 years in the same prescribed
            allied health profession as that which the registered allied
            health professional being complained against is registered
            in, and who is the chairperson;

       (b) at least one is a registered allied health professional who
            has practised for at least 10 years in the same prescribed
            allied health profession as that which the registered allied
            health professional being complained against is registered
            in; and

       (c) one is a layperson.

 (2) A Health Committee must inquire into any case or matter
referred to it under this Act.

 (3) A Health Committee may be appointed in connection with one
or more matters or for a fixed period of time as the Council may think
fit.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

63  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

Unfitness to practise through illness, etc.

 58.—(1) Where a Health Committee determines that a registered
allied health professional’s fitness to practise is impaired by reason of
his or her physical or mental condition, the Health Committee may
exercise one or more of the following powers:

    (a) order that his or her registration in the appropriate register
         be suspended for such period not exceeding 12 months as
         may be specified in the order;

    (b) where the registered allied health professional is an allied
         health professional with full registration, order the
         Registrar to remove his or her name from the Register of
         Allied Health Professionals with Full Registration and
         register him or her as an allied health professional with
         restricted or conditional registration in the prescribed allied
         health profession in which he or she is registered and with
         appropriate restrictions or conditions, and section 17(2)
         and (3) or 18(4) to (9) (as the case may be) applies
         accordingly;

    (c) where the registered allied health professional is registered
        in any register other than the Register of Allied Health
        Professionals with Full Registration, order that appropriate
        conditions or restrictions be imposed on his or her
        registration;

    (d) recommend to the Council that the name of the registered
         allied health professional be removed from the appropriate
         register;

    (e) order that he or she pays to the Council costs and expenses
        of and incidental to any inquiry or hearing by the Health
        Committee and, where applicable, an Interim Orders
        Committee.

 (2) Where the Council accepts the recommendation of the Health
Committee under subsection (1)(d), the Council must by order direct
the Registrar to remove the name of the registered allied health
professional from the appropriate register and that order takes effect
from the date the order is made.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  64

 (3) Where a registered allied health professional, in respect of
whom an order under subsection (1)(b) or (c) or section 61(1)(b) or
63(1)(d) is made, is determined by a Health Committee to have failed
to comply with any of the requirements imposed on him or her as
conditions or restrictions of his or her registration, the Health
Committee may, if it thinks fit, order that his or her registration in the
appropriate register be suspended for such period not exceeding
12 months as may be specified in the order.

 (4) Where a Health Committee has made an order for suspension
under subsection (1) or (3), the Health Committee may make an order
under subsection (1)(b) or (c), to take effect from the expiry of the
current period of suspension.

 (5) Where a Health Committee has made an order for suspension
under subsection (1) or (3) against a person and that person has failed
to comply with that order, the Health Committee may, if it thinks
fit —

(a) make a recommendation mentioned in subsection (1)(d) to
     the Council, and subsection (2) applies accordingly; or

(b) make an order under subsection (1)(b) or (c), to take effect
     from the expiry of the current period of suspension.

 (6) Where a Health Committee has made an order under
subsection (1)(b) or (c), the Health Committee or another Health
Committee appointed in its place may, on its own motion or on the
application of the Council or the registered allied health professional,
revoke the order or revoke or vary any of the conditions or restrictions
imposed by the order.

 (7) An application under subsection (6) must not be made in respect
of the same registered allied health professional more than once in
any period of 12 months.

 (8) Subsection (3) applies to a registered allied health professional
whose registration is subject to conditions or restrictions imposed by
an order made under subsection (4) or (5)(b) as it applies to a
registered allied health professional whose registration is subject to
conditions or restrictions imposed by an order made under
subsection (1)(b) or (c), and subsection (5) applies accordingly.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

65  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

 (9) Where a Health Committee has made an order (including a
revocation of the order or a revocation or variation of any condition or
restriction imposed by the order) under this section, the Registrar
must immediately serve on the person to whom the order applies a
notice of the order or of the revocation or variation.

 (10) While a person’s registration in a register is suspended by
virtue of this section, the person is to be treated as not being registered
in the register even though his or her name still appears in it, but
immediately on the expiry of the order of suspension, his or her rights
and privileges as a registered allied health professional are revived as
from the date of the expiry provided that the registered allied health
professional has complied with all the terms of the order.

 (11) Sections 50(11), (12), (13) and (14)(a) and 51 apply, with the
necessary modifications, to a Health Committee and references to a
Disciplinary Tribunal are to be read as references to a Health
Committee.

 (12) Any person who is aggrieved by an order (including a
revocation of the order or a revocation or variation of any
condition or restriction imposed by the order) made under this
section may, within 30 days after the service on the person of the
notice of the order, appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (13) Any order (including a revocation of the order or a revocation
or variation of any condition or restriction imposed by the order)
made under this section takes effect from the date the order,
revocation or variation is made unless the Minister decides otherwise.

Restoration of names removed on recommendation of Health
Committee

 59.—(1) Where the name of a registered allied health professional
has been removed from a register on the recommendation of a Health
Committee under section 58, the Council may, on its own motion or
upon his or her application —

       (a) direct that his or her name be restored to the register; or

       (b) direct that he or she be registered with restricted,
            conditional or temporary registration, and section 17(2)

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  66

          and (3), 18(4) to (9) or 19(3), (4) and (5) (as the case may
          be) applies accordingly.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) in respect of the same
person must not be made to the Council more than once in any period
of 12 months.

 (3) An application under subsection (1) in respect of a person must
not be made to the Council unless that person has complied with all
the terms of the order made against him or her.

                Division 7 — Interim Orders Committees

Interim Orders Committee

 60.—(1) The Council may from time to time appoint one or more
committees each comprising —

       (a) 2 of its members of whom one is to be appointed the
            chairperson; and

       (b) one registered allied health professional who has practised
            for at least 10 years in the same prescribed allied health
            profession as that which the registered allied health
            professional being complained against is registered in,

to be known for the purposes of this Act as Interim Orders
Committees, to inquire into any matter referred by the Council
under subsection (3).

 (2) An Interim Orders Committee may be appointed in connection
with one or more matters or for a fixed period of time.

 (3) The Chairperson of the Complaints Panel, or a Complaints
Committee, Disciplinary Tribunal or Health Committee may refer
any complaint or information to the Council for the purpose of
determining if an order should be made under section 61(1), and the
Council must refer the complaint or information to an Interim Orders
Committee for this purpose.

 (4) The Chairperson of the Complaints Panel, or a member of a
Complaints Committee, a Disciplinary Tribunal or a Health
Committee (as the case may be), inquiring into any matter must

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

67  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

not be a member of an Interim Orders Committee inquiring into or
reviewing the same matter.

 (5) A member of an Interim Orders Committee inquiring into or
reviewing any matter must not be a member of a Complaints
Committee, Health Committee or Disciplinary Tribunal inquiring
into the same matter, or take part in any deliberation of the Council
under section 58 in respect of the same matter.

 (6) All members of an Interim Orders Committee must vote on any
question arising at a meeting of the Interim Orders Committee and
that question is to be determined by a majority of votes.

 (7) A member of an Interim Orders Committee which has
commenced any inquiry or review of any case or matter, despite
having ceased to be a member of the Council on the expiry of his or
her term of office, continues to be a member of the Interim Orders
Committee until completion of that inquiry or review.

 (8) Sections 50(11), (12), (13) and (14)(a) and 51(1), (4) to (8) and
(11) apply, with the necessary modifications, to an Interim Orders
Committee and to proceedings before it as they apply to a
Disciplinary Tribunal and to proceedings before a Disciplinary
Tribunal.

Interim orders

 61.—(1) Where, upon due inquiry into any complaint or
information referred to it, an Interim Orders Committee is satisfied
that it is necessary for the protection of members of the public or is
otherwise in the public interest, or is in the interests of the registered
allied health professional concerned, that his or her registration be
suspended or be made subject to conditions or restrictions, the
Interim Orders Committee may make an order —

       (a) that his or her registration in the appropriate register be
            suspended for such period not exceeding 18 months as may
            be specified in the order (called in this Part an interim
            suspension order); or

       (b) that his or her registration be conditional on his or her
            compliance, during such period not exceeding 18 months

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  68

          as may be specified in the order, with such conditions or
          restrictions so specified as the Interim Orders Committee
          thinks fit to impose (called in this Part an interim
          restriction order).

 (2) The Registrar must immediately serve a notification of the order
on the registered allied health professional, and the order takes effect
from the date the order is made.

Review of interim orders

 62.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), where an Interim Orders
Committee has made an order under section 61(1), the Interim
Orders Committee or another Interim Orders Committee appointed in
its place —

       (a) must review it within the period of 6 months beginning on
            the date on which the order was made, and must thereafter,
            for so long as the order continues in force, further review it
            before the end of the period of 3 months beginning on the
            date of the decision of the immediately preceding review;
            and

       (b) may review it where new evidence relevant to the order has
            become available after the making of the order.

 (2) Where the General Division of the High Court has extended the
order under section 65(2) or an Interim Orders Committee has made a
replacement order under section 63(1)(c) or (d), the first review after
such extension or making of the replacement order must take place —

       (a) if the order (or the order which has been replaced) had not
            been reviewed under subsection (1) — within the period of
            6 months beginning on the date on which the General
            Division of the High Court ordered the extension or on
            which the replacement order was made, as the case may be;
            or

       (b) if it had been reviewed under subsection (1) — within the
            period of 3 months beginning on the date on which the
            General Division of the High Court ordered the extension
            or on which the replacement order was made.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

69  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

Interim Orders Committee may revoke, vary or replace
interim order

 63.—(1) Where an interim suspension order or an interim
restriction order has been made under this section or section 61(1)
in relation to any person, the Interim Orders Committee that made the
order or another Interim Orders Committee appointed in its place
may, either upon its review under section 62 or upon the
recommendation of a Complaints Committee, Disciplinary Tribunal
or Health Committee —

    (a) revoke the order or revoke any condition or restriction
         imposed by the order;

    (b) make an order varying any condition or restriction imposed
         by the order;

    (c) if satisfied that to do so is necessary for the protection of
        members of the public or is otherwise in the public interest,
        or is in the interests of the registered allied health
        professional concerned, or that the registered allied
        health professional has not complied with any
        requirement imposed as a condition or restriction of his
        or her registration in the interim restriction order, replace
        that order with an interim suspension order having effect
        for the remainder of the period of that order; or

    (d) if satisfied that the public interest or the interests of the
         registered allied health professional concerned would be
         more adequately served by an interim restriction order,
         replace the interim suspension order with an interim
         restriction order having effect for the remainder of the
         period of the interim suspension order.

 (2) The Registrar must immediately serve a notification of the
decision under subsection (1) on the registered allied health
professional, and such order takes effect from the date the order is
made.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                  Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.          Act 2011                                          70

Right of hearing

 64.—(1) An order under section 61(1) or 63(1)(b), (c) or (d) must
not be made by an Interim Orders Committee in respect of any
registered allied health professional unless he or she has been given
an opportunity of appearing before the Interim Orders Committee and
being heard on the question whether such an order should be made in
his or her case.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the registered allied health
professional may be represented before the Interim Orders
Committee by counsel.

 (3) Regulations made for the purposes of an Interim Orders
Committee may include provisions securing that the registered
allied health professional in respect of whom an interim suspension
order or an interim restriction order has been made is, if he or she so
requires, entitled to be heard by the Interim Orders Committee on
each occasion when it reviews the order, and to be represented by
counsel during such review.

Application to General Division of High Court

 65.—(1) The Council may apply to the General Division of the
High Court for an extension of the period for which an order made
under section 61(1) or 63(1)(c) or (d) has effect, and may apply again
for further extensions.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) On such an application, the General Division of the High Court
may extend (or further extend) for up to 12 months the period for
which the order has effect.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) The General Division of the High Court may, on application by
the registered allied health professional concerned —

       (a) in the case of an interim suspension order — revoke the
            order;

       (b) in the case of an interim restriction order — revoke the
            order or vary any condition or restriction imposed by the
            order; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

71  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

    (c) in either case — substitute for the period specified in the
        order (or in the order extending it) some other period which
        could have been specified in the order when it was made
        (or in the order extending it).

                                                                                                    [40/2019]

Duration of interim orders

 66.—(1) An interim suspension order or an interim restriction order
is in force until the earlier of the following:

       (a) the end of the period specified —

               (i) in the order; or

              (ii) if the period is extended under section 65(2), in the
                   order extending it;

       (b) the date on which the relevant proceedings are concluded.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(b), the relevant proceedings
are concluded if —

       (a) the Complaints Committee inquiring into the complaint or
            information has made an order under section 49(1) and —

               (i) no appeal to the Minister under section 49(10) or (11)
                   was made against that decision within the period
                   specified in that provision or such an appeal was
                   withdrawn; or

              (ii) the Minister made an order under section 49(13)(a)
                   or (d);

       (b) the Disciplinary Tribunal inquiring into the complaint or
            information has made an order under section 53(2) which
            has taken effect, or has dismissed the complaint or matter
            under section 53(4); or

       (c) the Health Committee inquiring into the matter has made
            an order under section 58(1) which has taken effect, the
            Council has made an order under section 58(2) which has
            taken effect, or the Health Committee has dismissed the
            complaint or matter,

as the case may be.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  72

Person suspended under interim suspension order not
regarded as registered

 67.—(1) While a person’s registration in a register is suspended by
virtue of an interim suspension order, he or she is not regarded as
being registered even though his or her name still appears in the
register.

 (2) Immediately upon the expiry or revocation of the interim
suspension order, the person’s rights and privileges as a registered
allied health professional are revived from the date of the expiry or
revocation, provided that he or she has complied with all the terms of
the order.

 (3) To avoid doubt, sections 39 to 55, 57 and 58 continue to apply to
a person whose registration in the register is suspended by virtue of an
interim suspension order.

               Division 8 — Appointment of legal counsel

Council may appoint legal counsel

 68. For the purposes of an inquiry under this Part by a Disciplinary
Tribunal, a Health Committee or an Interim Orders Committee, the
Council may appoint an advocate and solicitor and pay him or her, as
part of the expenses of the Council, such remuneration as the Council
may determine.

                                    PART 6

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Investigators

 69.—(1) The Council may, in writing, appoint a member of the
Council, a public officer or any other person as an investigator,
subject to such conditions and limitations as the Council may
specify —

       (a) to investigate the commission of an offence under this Act;
            or

       (b) to carry out an investigation under Part 5.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

73  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

(2) An investigator may, for the purposes of subsection (1) —

    (a) by written order require any person —

    (i) to furnish any information within his or her
        knowledge; or

    (ii) to produce any book, document, paper or other
         record, or any article or thing which may be in his or
         her custody or possession and which may be related
         to or be connected with the subject matter of the
         investigation for inspection by the investigator and
         for making copies thereof, or to provide copies of
         such book, document, paper or other record,

    (a) and may (if necessary) further require such person to attend
         at a specified time and place for the purpose of complying
         with sub‑paragraph (i) or (ii);

    (b) by written order require the attendance before the
         investigator of any person who, from information given
         or otherwise, appears to be acquainted with the facts and
         circumstances of the matter under investigation;

    (c) examine orally any person apparently acquainted with the
        facts and circumstances of the matter under investigation,
        and to reduce into writing the answer given or statement
        made by that person who is bound to state truly the facts
        and circumstances with which he or she is acquainted, and
        the statement made by that person must be read over to him
        or her and must, after correction, be signed by him or her;
        and

    (d) without warrant enter, inspect, and search during regular
         business hours any premises which are used or proposed to
         be used, or in respect of which there is reasonable cause to
         believe are being used, by the registered allied health
         professional who is under investigation to carry out the
         practice of the prescribed allied health profession and
         may —

    (i) inspect and make copies of and take extracts from, or
        require the registered allied health professional or the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.              Act 2011                                      74

          person having the management or control of the
          premises to provide copies of or extracts from, any
          book, document, record or electronic material
          relating to the affairs of the premises or the
          facilities or services provided or the practices or
          procedures being carried out thereat;

          (ii) inspect any apparatus, appliance, equipment or
               instrument used or found on the premises;

          (iii) inspect, test, examine, take and remove any
                chemical, pharmaceutical or any other substance
                found on the premises;

          (iv) inspect, test, examine, take and remove any
               container, article or other thing that the investigator
               reasonably believes to contain or to have contained
               any chemical, pharmaceutical or any other substance
               found on the premises;

          (v) inspect any test or procedure performed or carried
               out on the premises;

          (vi) take such photographs or video recording as the
               investigator thinks necessary to record the premises
               or part thereof, including any apparatus, appliance,
               equipment, instrument, article, book, document or
               record found on the premises; and

          (vii) seize and remove from the premises any book,
                record, document, apparatus, equipment, instrument,
                material, chemical, pharmaceutical or any other
                substance which the investigator reasonably
                believes to be the subject matter of, or to be
                connected with, an investigation under
                subsection (1)(a) or (b).

(3) Any person who —

(a) intentionally offers any resistance to or wilfully delays an
     investigator in the exercise of any power under
     subsection (2); or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

75  Act 2011                                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) fails to comply with any requisition or order of an
         investigator under subsection (2),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

 (4) In this section, “record” includes the medical record of any
person.

Assessors to Council

 70.—(1) For the purposes of advising the Council, and any
committee or professional board appointed by the Council, the
Council may appoint a legal assessor to the Council who must be an
advocate and solicitor of at least 10 years’ standing.

 (2) The legal assessor must not participate or sit in any deliberations
of the Council or its committees and professional boards unless
invited to do so, and his or her participation is limited only to
questions of law arising from the proceedings.

 (3) The Council may appoint a medical assessor to assist the
Council and any committee or professional board appointed by the
Council in proceedings before any of them under the provisions of
this Act.

 (4) The Council may pay to the legal assessor and medical assessor,
as part of the expenses of the Council, such remuneration as the
Council may determine.

 (5) In this section, a committee appointed by the Council includes a
Complaints Committee, a Disciplinary Tribunal, a Health Committee
and an Interim Orders Committee.

No action against Council, etc., in absence of bad faith

 71. No action or legal proceedings shall lie against —

       (a) a member of the Council or a person authorised, appointed
            or employed to assist the Council;

       (b) a member of a Complaints Committee, a Disciplinary
            Tribunal, a Health Committee, an Interim Orders

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  76

          Committee or any other committee or professional board
          appointed by the Council;

          (c) a member of a Performance Assessment Panel, a Fitness
              Assessment Panel or a Review Committee; or

(d) an investigator appointed under section 69,

for any act or thing done under this Act, which is done with
reasonable care and in good faith in exercise of any power or the
performance of any duty or function under this Act.

Service of documents

 72.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by or under this
Act to be served on a person may be served as described in this
section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on an individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents
            generally, or specifically for the document, or (if no
            address is so specified) the individual’s residential address
            or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;
            or

       (e) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a partnership (other than a limited liability partnership)
may be served —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Allied Health Professions

77                     Act 2011                               2020 Ed.

    (a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer, or an
         authorised representative, of the partnership;

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the partnership’s business address; or

    (c) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
        address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a body corporate (including a limited liability partnership)
or an unincorporated association may be served —

    (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
         body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
         limited liability partnership’s manager;

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the registered office or principal office in Singapore of
         the body corporate or unincorporated association; or

    (c) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
        corporate or unincorporated association.

(5) Service of a document under this section takes effect —

    (a) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
         after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
         undelivered); or

    (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
         becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
         it is sent.

 (6) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email may be effected only with the person’s prior written consent to
service in that way.

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

(8) In this section —

    “authorised representative”, in relation to a partnership (other
       than a limited liability partnership), means any person

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  78

          authorised to accept service of documents on behalf of the
          partnership;

“business address” means —

          (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
               last known place of business in Singapore; or

          (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
               liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
               last known place of business in Singapore;

“document” includes an order or a notice permitted or required
   by or under this Act to be served;

“last email address” means the last email address given by the
   addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
   document as the email address for the service of documents
   under this Act;

“residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
   place of residence in Singapore.

                            [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

Composition of offences

 73.—(1) The Council may compound any offence under this Act
which is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
not exceeding the lower of the following sums:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $2,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) The Council may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations to prescribe the offences which may be compounded.

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid to the
Consolidated Fund.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
           Allied Health Professions

79         Act 2011                                           2020 Ed.

Exemption

 74. The Minister may, after consultation with the Council, by order
in the Gazette and subject to such conditions as the Minister may
impose, exempt any person or class of persons from all or any of the
provisions of this Act.

Regulations

 75.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Council may,
with the approval of the Minister, make such regulations as may be
necessary or expedient to give effect to the provisions and purposes of
this Act and for the due administration of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), regulations may be made to —

       (a) provide for the duties of the Registrar;

       (b) provide for different registration requirements for different
            prescribed allied health professions;

       (c) provide for the form of the registers and the mode in which
            they must be kept;

       (d) regulate the grant and renewal of practising certificates,
            including prescribing conditions for such grant and
            renewal;

       (e) regulate the procedure of, and the conduct of any
            proceedings before, a Complaints Committee, a
            Disciplinary Tribunal, a Health Committee, an Interim
            Orders Committee, any other committee or professional
            board appointed by the Council and a Review Committee;

        (f) provide for payment of fees to any member of a
            Complaints Committee, a Disciplinary Tribunal, a Health
            Committee, an Interim Orders Committee, any other
            committee or professional board appointed by the
            Council or a Review Committee;

       (g) regulate the removal of and restoration of names to a
            register;

       (h) regulate the professional practice, etiquette, conduct and
            discipline of registered allied health professionals;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.  Act 2011                                                  80

          (i) prescribe the forms necessary for the administration of this
              Act;

          (j) prescribe the fees and other charges for the purposes of this
              Act;

          (k) prescribe acts or activities which a registered allied health
              professional may perform only on satisfaction of specified
              requirements;

          (l) provide that a contravention of any regulation made under
              this Act is an offence and provide for penalties not
              exceeding a fine of $5,000 or imprisonment for a term not
              exceeding 6 months or both for each such offence; and

(m) prescribe such other matter as are necessary or authorised
     to be prescribed under this Act.

Saving and transitional provisions

 76.—(1) Any person who, immediately before 8 April 2013, was
practising in any prescribed allied health profession is deemed to be a
duly qualified allied health professional in that prescribed allied
health profession until such time as the person becomes registered
under section 16, 17, 18 or 19 in respect of that prescribed allied
health profession or the person’s application for registration is
refused or withdrawn, or until such date as may be prescribed,
whichever is the earlier.

 (2) For the purpose of the first appointment of the members of the
Council under section 6, the reference in subsection (1)(d) of that
section to an allied health professional with full registration from a
prescribed allied health profession is to be read as a reference to any
person who —

       (a) immediately prior to 8 April 2013, had been practising that
            profession; and

       (b) possesses such qualification in or in relation to that
            profession which the Minister is satisfied renders him or
            her fit for appointment as a member of the Council.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                          Allied Health Professions

81                        Act 2011                            2020 Ed.
                                                     Sections 2 and 5
                          FIRST SCHEDULE

                         ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONS
 1. Audiologist
 2. Clinical Psychologist
 3. Dietitian
 4. Occupational Therapist
 5. Physiotherapist
 6. Podiatrist
 7. Prosthetist/Orthotist
 8. Radiation Therapist
 9. Radiographer
10. Speech Therapist

                SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                               Sections 2, 4, 5, 29(1) and 30(1)

    PRESCRIBED ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONS

      First column            Second column           Third column
                                    Titles
Allied health profession                               Description
                          1. Occupational
1. Occupational Therapy      Therapist        1. Occupational therapy
   (or Ergomedicine or                       involves assessment and
   Ergotherapy)           2. Ergotherapist   interventions to work or
                                             school, self‑care, leisure or
                                             play, physical environments
                                             as well as cognitive, mental
                                             and physical components of
                                             function to enable individuals
                                             affected by physical injury or
                                             illness, developmental or
                                             learning disabilities,
                                             psychosocial dysfunctions or
                                             the aging process, to engage
                                             in everyday life occupations
                                             in order to maximise
                                             independent performance of
                                             life roles, prevent disability
                                             and maintain health.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.                  Act 2011                                  82

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

      First column        Second column           Third column
Allied health profession        Titles
                                                   Description

                                          2. The acts or activities
                                         constituting occupational
                                         therapy include, but are not
                                         limited to, the following:

                                          (a) assess and identify
                                               problems in everyday
                                               life occupations, which
                                               impede the safe and
                                               effective performance of
                                               everyday activities;
                                               “everyday activities”
                                               being defined as
                                               activities necessary for
                                               self‑care, being
                                               productive in work,
                                               school, homemaking or
                                               volunteering activities,
                                               play and leisure;

                                          (b) prescribe and carry out
                                               interventions to prevent,
                                               remedy or adapt to
                                               problems in performing
                                               everyday life
                                               occupations;

                                          (c) apply universal design
                                               principles to adapt
                                               physical environment
                                               and tools to enable
                                               everyday life
                                               occupations;

                                          (d) remediate or restore
                                               musculo‑skeletal,
                                               neurological, cognitive,
                                               perceptual, behavioural
                                               and psychosocial
                                               deficits limiting
                                               everyday life
                                               occupations;

                                          (e) conduct of sensorimotor
                                               and neurobehavioural

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                          Allied Health Professions

83                        Act 2011                            2020 Ed.

    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

      First column            Second column               Third column
Allied health profession            Titles
                                                           Description
2. Physiotherapy          1. Physiotherapist
                          2. Physical Therapist        performance tests to
                                                       screen infants and
                                                       children for potential
                                                       developmental delay;

                                                   (f) assessment and
                                                       remediation of activities
                                                       of daily living,
                                                       including management
                                                       of toileting and personal
                                                       hygiene, driver
                                                       assessment and
                                                       rehabilitation, and
                                                       sexual rehabilitation
                                                       following disabilities;

                                                  (g) assessment and
                                                       intervention for safe and
                                                       independent community
                                                       living;

                                                  (h) fabrication of orthotic
                                                       devices to protect or
                                                       stretch tissues;

                                                   (i) measurement and
                                                       prescription of pressure
                                                       garments to manage
                                                       edema and scarring;

                                                   (j) prescription and training
                                                       in assistive
                                                       technologies;

                                                  (k) pre‑vocational and
                                                       vocational assessment
                                                       and training.

                                                  1. Physiotherapy involves
                                                 the assessment, treatment,
                                                 rehabilitation and prevention
                                                 of pain, injury, or any other
                                                 physical dysfunction, through
                                                 the use of education, exercise,
                                                 manual therapy,
                                                 electro‑physical agents,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.                  Act 2011                                  84

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

      First column        Second column           Third column
Allied health profession        Titles
                                                   Description

                                         technology or any other
                                         treatment for those purposes.

                                          2. The acts or activities
                                         constituting physiotherapy
                                         include, but are not limited to,
                                         the following:

                                          (a) physical rehabilitation;

                                          (b) prescribing of
                                               therapeutic exercises,
                                               manual techniques,
                                               electro‑physical agents,
                                               technology, aids and
                                               appliances;

                                          (c) detecting abnormalities
                                               of human movements
                                               and functions, from
                                               newborn to older
                                               persons, using the
                                               following methods:

                                                   (i) clinical
                                                       examinations and
                                                       tests;

                                                  (ii) goniometry,
                                                       dynamometry
                                                       and
                                                       posturography;

                                                 (iii) all forms of
                                                       human motion
                                                       analysis;

                                                  (iv) exercise tests;

                                                  (v) use of
                                                       bioimpedance
                                                       technology and
                                                       perometry; and

                                                  (vi) instruments to
                                                       assess mobility,
                                                       physical

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                          Allied Health Professions

85                        Act 2011                                       2020 Ed.

    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

      First column        Second column              Third column
Allied health profession
                          Titles                     Description
3. Speech‑Language
   Pathology (or Speech                              functions and
   Language Pathology)                               quality of life;

                                                  (d) any other type of
                                                       practice of restoration of
                                                       normal human
                                                       movements that forms
                                                       part of the practice of
                                                       physiotherapy;

                                                  (e) health promotion,
                                                      illness and disease
                                                      prevention.

                          1. Speech Language 1. Speech and Language

                          Therapist (or           Therapy involves the

                          Speech‑Language assessment, diagnosis,

                          Therapist)              treatment and management of

                          2. Speech Language      communication and
                             Pathologist (or      swallowing disorders.

                          Speech‑Language 2. Communication

                          Pathologist)            encompasses spoken and

                          3. Speech and           symbolic representations of
                             Language Therapist   language (i.e. written,
                             (or Speech‑and-      pictorial, signed), and takes
                             Language Therapist)  into consideration hearing,
                                                  auditory processing,

                          4. Speech and           understanding, expressive

                          Language                language, articulation,

                          Pathologist (or         fluency, resonance, voice,

                          Speech‑and-             prosody, non‑verbal and

                          Language                social skills.

                          Pathologist)               3. Swallowing disorders

                          5. Speech Therapist (or encompass disorders in the

                          Speech‑Therapist) oral, pharyngeal and

                          6. Speech Pathologist   oesophageal phases of
                             (or                  swallowing.

                          Speech‑Pathologist) 4. The acts or activities

                                                  constituting the practice of

                                                  speech and language therapy

                                                  include, but are not limited to,

                                                  the following:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.                  Act 2011                                  86

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

      First column        Second column          Third column
Allied health profession        Titles
                                                  Description

                                         (a) assessment, diagnosis,
                                              and management of
                                              hearing, auditory
                                              processing, spoken,
                                              written and symbolic
                                              language (receptive and
                                              expressive),
                                              articulation, fluency,
                                              resonance, voice,
                                              prosody, non‑verbal and
                                              social skills
                                              (subsequently referred
                                              to as “communication
                                              disorders”);

                                         (b) assessment, diagnosis,
                                              and management of
                                              feeding, oral,
                                              pharyngeal and
                                              oesophageal swallowing
                                              disorders (subsequently
                                              referred to as
                                              “swallowing
                                              disorders”);

                                         (c) administration and
                                              interpretation of
                                              standardised and
                                              informal assessments
                                              and/or objective
                                              assessments (e.g.
                                              stroboscopy, endoscopy
                                              videofluoroscopy,
                                              electromyography,
                                              manometry and
                                              communication
                                              technology) to aid in the
                                              diagnosis and
                                              management of
                                              communication and
                                              swallowing disorders;

                                         (d) modification or
                                              enhancement of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                          Allied Health Professions

87                        Act 2011                            2020 Ed.

    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

      First column        Second column          Third column
Allied health profession        Titles
                                                  Description

                                             communicative
                                             performance, or
                                             remediation of
                                             communication and
                                             swallowing disorders
                                             through client and
                                             caregiver education,
                                             counselling and using a
                                             variety and combination
                                             of treatment approaches
                                             such as (but not limited
                                             to) —

                                                 (i) cognitive
                                                      rehabilitation;

                                                 (ii) behavioural
                                                      modification;

                                                (iii) oromotor (and
                                                      oral‑placement)
                                                      therapy;

                                         (e) provision of expert
                                             opinion, selection of,
                                             and training in
                                             augmentative and
                                             alternative
                                             communication
                                             (AAC) systems and
                                             prostheses for
                                             communication
                                             and swallowing
                                             (e.g. for clients with
                                             tracheostomies or
                                             laryngectomies);

                                         (f) advising on and
                                             addressing the
                                             implications of
                                             communication and
                                             swallowing problems on
                                             an individual’s quality
                                             of life and participation
                                             in society.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.                  Act 2011                                           88

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

      First column        Second column              Third column
Allied health profession
4. Radiation Therapy      Titles                     Description

                          1. Radiation Therapist   1. Radiation therapy
                                                  involves —
                          2. Therapeutic
                             Radiographer          (a) the controlled use of
                                                        ionising radiation,
                                                        radioactive substances
                                                        and non‑ionising
                                                        radiation to facilitate the
                                                        localisation,
                                                        management and
                                                        treatment of cancerous
                                                        and non‑cancerous
                                                        lesions;

                                                  (b) the development of an
                                                       optimal radiation
                                                       treatment plan; and

                                                  (c) the safe administration
                                                      of radiation treatment.

                                                   2. The acts or activities
                                                  constituting radiation therapy
                                                  include, but are not limited to,
                                                  the following:

                                                  (a) reviewing clinical
                                                       requests;

                                                  (b) fabricating appropriate
                                                       immobilisation devices;

                                                  (c) conducting
                                                      pre‑treatment
                                                      simulation and
                                                      treatment planning to
                                                      facilitate radiation
                                                      treatment;

                                                  (d) administering radiation
                                                       treatment or other
                                                       actions as part of a care
                                                       team, which include, but
                                                       are not limited to, the
                                                       following:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                          Allied Health Professions

89                        Act 2011                            2020 Ed.

                    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

      First column        Second column             Third column
Allied health profession        Titles
                                                     Description
    5. Radiography        1. Diagnostic
                             Radiographer            (i) carrying out the
                                                         appropriate
                          2. Radiographer                image
                                                         verification
                          3. Radiologic                  before delivery
                             Technologist                of treatment;

                                                    (ii) dispensing and
                                                         administering the
                                                         appropriate
                                                         radiation dose in
                                                         accordance with
                                                         the medical
                                                         treatment plan
                                                         prescribed by
                                                         medical
                                                         practitioners and
                                                         principles of
                                                         radiation safety
                                                         and protection.

                                            1. Radiography involves the
                                           controlled use of ionising
                                           radiation, radioactive
                                           substances and non‑ionising
                                           radiation to produce
                                           diagnostic quality images of
                                           the human body, facilitating
                                           the diagnosis and treatment of
                                           patients.

                                            2. The acts or activities
                                           constituting radiography
                                           include, but are not limited to,
                                           the following:

                                            (a) reviewing clinical
                                                 requests;

                                            (b) planning diagnostic
                                                 imaging procedures;

                                            (c) conducting the
                                                 appropriate diagnostic
                                                 imaging procedures, or
                                                 assisting in treatment

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                          Allied Health Professions

2020 Ed.                  Act 2011                                  90

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

      First column        Second column                 Third column
Allied health profession        Titles
                                                         Description

                                                     procedures or other
                                                     actions as part of a care
                                                     team, which include, but
                                                     are not limited to, the
                                                     following:

                                                         (i) performing the
                                                             full range of
                                                             diagnostic
                                                             imaging
                                                             techniques and
                                                             contrast agent
                                                             examinations;

                                                        (ii) prescribing,
                                                             dispensing or
                                                             administering the
                                                             appropriate
                                                             radiation dose by
                                                             applying
                                                             principles of
                                                             radiation safety
                                                             and protection.

                                                                    [S 160/2016]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

             ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONS
                            ACT 2011

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 1 of 2011 — Allied Health Professions Act 2011

Bill                  : 33/2010

First Reading         : 22 November 2010

Second and Third Readings : 10 January 2011

Commencement          : 8 April 2013

2. 2013 Revised Edition — Allied Health Professions Act (Chapter 6B)

Operation             : 30 November 2013

3. G.N. No. S 160/2016 — Allied Health Professions Act (Amendment of
                                   Second Schedule) Order 2016

Commencement          : 15 April 2016

4. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 5 of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 5 of the Schedule)

5. 2020 Revised Edition — Allied Health Professions
                                    Act 2011

Operation             : 31 December 2021

6. G.N. No. S 23/2025 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Rectification of Acts)
                                Order 2025

Operation             : 31 December 2021

Publication           : 16 January 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
               ii

7. Act 33 of 2021 — Judicial Service (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2021

Bill           : 30/2021

First Reading  : 4 October 2021

Second and Third Readings : 3 November 2021

Commencement   : 14 January 2022

8. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
   (Amendments made by)

Bill           : 18/2021

First Reading  : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement   : 1 April 2022

9. Act 11 of 2023 — Healthcare Services (Amendment) Act 2023
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 6/2023

First Reading  : 6 February 2023

Second and Third Readings : 6 March 2023

Commencement   : 1 May 2023

10. Act 19 of 2025 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2025

Bill           : 9/2025

First Reading  : 22 September 2025

Second and Third Readings : 15 October 2025

Commencement   : 5 December 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
.                                 iii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
      COMPARATIVE TABLE

ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONS
               ACT 2011

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.          2013 Ed.
[Omitted as spent]
                           76—(3)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
