2025‑2026
The Parliament of the
Commonwealth of Australia
THE SENATE
Presented and read a first time
Diplomatic Appointments (Selection Process) Bill 2026
No.      , 2026
(Senator Payman)
A Bill for an Act to establish a selection process for certain diplomatic appointments, and for related purposes
Contents
Part 1—Preliminary	1
Division 1—Preliminary	1
1	Short title	1
2	Commencement	1
3	Simplified outline of this Act	2
4	Application of this Act	2
5	Crown to be bound	3
Division 2—Definitions and key concepts	4
6	Definitions	4
7	What is a designated diplomatic office?	4
8	Political affiliations relevant to diplomatic appointments	5
Part 2—Selection process for diplomatic appointments—main provisions	7
9	Appointments to designated diplomatic offices	7
10	Recommendations by Selection Committees	8
11	Acting arrangements for designated diplomatic offices	9
Part 3—Selection process for diplomatic appointments—procedural provisions	11
12	Minister may establish Selection Committees	11
13	Meetings of Selection Committees	12
Part 4—Miscellaneous	13
14	Overarching prohibition and consequences of non‑compliance	13
15	Appointments to which this Act applies	14
16	Rules	14
A Bill for an Act to establish a selection process for certain diplomatic appointments, and for related purposes
The Parliament of Australia enacts:
Part 1—Preliminary
Division 1—Preliminary
1  Short title
		This Act is the Diplomatic Appointments (Selection Process) Act 2026.
2  Commencement
	(1)	Each provision of this Act specified in column 1 of the table commences, or is taken to have commenced, in accordance with column 2 of the table. Any other statement in column 2 has effect according to its terms.
Commencement information
Column 1
Column 2
Column 3
Provisions
Commencement
Date/Details
1.  The whole of this Act
The day after this Act receives the Royal Assent.
Note:	This table relates only to the provisions of this Act as originally enacted. It will not be amended to deal with any later amendments of this Act.
	(2)	Any information in column 3 of the table is not part of this Act. Information may be inserted in this column, or information in it may be edited, in any published version of this Act.
3  Simplified outline of this Act
This Act establishes a framework for the selection and appointment of individuals to certain diplomatic offices, called designated diplomatic offices.
Broadly, an appointment to a designated diplomatic office can only be made where the person to be appointed does not have a disqualifying political affiliation. This requirement applies in all cases.
In addition, a Selection Committee established by the Minister must have recommended the appointment and any person so recommended by the Selection Committee must be appointed.
If two or more Selection Committees established for making a recommendation in relation to the same appointment fail to agree on a candidate, the Commonwealth may proceed to make an appointment without a recommendation. In such cases, the person appointed must not have a significant political affiliation, or if the person does have a significant political affiliation, the appointment must be approved by the Parliament.
Section 8 outlines what constitutes a disqualifying political affiliation and a significant political affiliation and sections 9 and 10 describe the selection and appointment process.
If an appointment to a designated diplomatic office is made in contravention of this Act, the appointment must be terminated as soon as practicable after the Minister becomes aware of the contravention.
4  Application of this Act
		This Act applies both within and outside Australia and extends to every external Territory.
5  Crown to be bound
		This Act binds the Crown in right of the Commonwealth. However, it does not bind the Crown in right of a State, of the Australian Capital Territory or of the Northern Territory.
Division 2—Definitions and key concepts
6  Definitions
		In this Act:
designated diplomatic office: see section 7.
disqualifying political affiliation: see subsection 8(1).
Minister means the Minister administering the Diplomatic and Consular Missions Act 1978.
Secretary means the Secretary of the Department administered by the Minister.
Selection Committee: see subsection 12(2).
significant political affiliation: see subsection 8(2).
rules means rules made under section 16.
7  What is a designated diplomatic office?
	(1)	A designated diplomatic office is any of the following offices of the Commonwealth:
	(a)	the office of Ambassador to the United States of America;
	(b)	any office of Consul‑General in the United States of America;
	(c)	the office of High Commissioner to the United Kingdom;
	(d)	the office of High Commissioner to New Zealand;
	(e)	the office of Ambassador to Ireland;
	(f)	the office of Ambassador to the Netherlands;
	(g)	the office of High Commissioner to India;
	(h)	the office of Ambassador to the Holy See;
	(i)	the office of High Commissioner to Singapore;
	(j)	the office of Ambassador to Japan;
	(k)	the office of Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development;
	(l)	the office of Ambassador to Italy;
	(m)	the office of High Commissioner to Canada;
	(n)	the office of Ambassador to Belgium;
	(o)	any office of Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the United Nations.
	(2)	An office of the Commonwealth in a country or place outside Australia is also a designated diplomatic office if the office is prescribed by the rules.
8  Political affiliations relevant to diplomatic appointments
When does a person have a disqualifying political affiliation?
	(1)	A person has a disqualifying political affiliation if the person is, or has been at any time within the last 10 years, a member of the Parliament of the Commonwealth, the Parliament of a State or the legislature of a Territory.
When does a person have a significant political affiliation?
	(2)	A person has a significant political affiliation if:
	(a)	the person has been, at any time other than within the last 10 years, a member of the Parliament of the Commonwealth, the Parliament of a State or the legislature of a Territory; or
	(b)	the person is or has been employed under the Members of Parliament (Staff) Act 1984 as a member of the staff of a person occupying any of the following positions:
	(i)	a Minister (including the Prime Minister);
	(ii)	the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate;
	(iii)	the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives;
	(iv)	the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the Senate;
	(v)	the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives;
	(vi)	a shadow Minister; or
	(c)	the person is or has been employed under a law of a State or Territory as a member of the staff of a person occupying a position in the State or Territory that is equivalent or corresponds to a position mentioned in any of paragraphs (b)(i) to (vi); or
	(d)	the person is or has been an officer or employee of a registered political party (within the meaning of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918).
Part 2—Selection process for diplomatic appointments—main provisions
9  Appointments to designated diplomatic offices
Appointments
	(1)	A person may be appointed to a designated diplomatic office only if:
	(a)	the person does not have a disqualifying political affiliation; and
	(b)	subsection (2) or (3) applies.
Appointments when Selection Committee makes recommendation
	(2)	This subsection applies if a Selection Committee recommends the person’s appointment to the office.
Appointments when no recommendation from Selection Committee
	(3)	This subsection applies if:
	(a)	no recommendation for an appointment to the office has been made by a Selection Committee established for the purpose of making such a recommendation; and
	(b)	at least two such Selection Committees have instead referred the matter back to the Minister; and
	(c)	either:
	(i)	the Minister is satisfied the person does not have a significant political affiliation; or
	(ii)	both Houses of Parliament pass a resolution approving the person’s appointment to the office.
Tabling requirement
	(4)	If a person is appointed to a designated diplomatic office because the Minister is satisfied in accordance with subparagraph (3)(c)(i), the Minister must table in each House of the Parliament a statement of reasons setting out why the Minister is so satisfied.
	(5)	The statement must be tabled within 5 sitting days of that House after the appointment is made.
10  Recommendations by Selection Committees
Candidate list
	(1)	The Minister must, within 7 days of establishing a Selection Committee for an appointment to a designated diplomatic office, give the Selection Committee a list of between 2 and 10 (inclusive) proposed candidates for the appointment.
	(2)	The list:
	(a)	must not propose any candidate who has a disqualifying political affiliation; and
	(b)	if the list proposes between 2 and 4 candidates (inclusive)—may only propose 1 candidate who has a significant political affiliation; and
	(c)	if the list proposes between 5 and 10 candidates (inclusive)—may only propose up to 2 candidates who have a significant political affiliation; and
	(d)	for each candidate who has a significant political affiliation (if any)—must set out reasons why the candidate would be appropriate for appointment to the office despite the candidate’s significant political affiliation.
Selection Committee decision
	(3)	The Selection Committee must, within 2 months after receiving the list, give the Minister a written notice:
	(a)	if the Selection Committee agrees on a candidate for the appointment—recommending the candidate’s appointment to the office; or
	(b)	otherwise—referring the matter back to the Minister.
Selection Committee may inform itself
	(4)	The Selection Committee may, in making a decision for the purposes of subsection (3), seek assistance, input or information from such persons as the Selection Committee determines.
Dissolution of Selection Committee
	(5)	The Selection Committee is dissolved after giving the Minister written notice as required by subsection (3).
Modification for second or subsequent Committees
	(6)	If:
	(a)	a Selection Committee established for an appointment to a designated diplomatic office refers the matter back to the Minister; and
	(b)	the Minister subsequently establishes another Selection Committee (the second or subsequent Committee) for that particular appointment;
subsection (1) has effect in relation to the second or subsequent Committee as if the reference to a list of between 2 and 10 (inclusive) proposed candidates were instead a reference to a list of 2 or 3 proposed candidates.
Recommendations apply only in relation to particular vacancies
	(7)	To avoid doubt, a Selection Committee’s recommendation for an appointment to a designated diplomatic office is of no effect after an appointment to the office is made.
Note:	This subsection confirms historical recommendations cannot be relied on for subsequent appointments.
11  Acting arrangements for designated diplomatic offices
	(1)	This section applies in relation to a person (the chargé d’affaires) acting in a designated diplomatic office:
	(a)	during a vacancy in the office; or
	(b)	during any period, or during all periods, when a person appointed to the office:
	(i)	is absent from duty; or
	(ii)	is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the office.
	(2)	The chargé d’affaires must not have a disqualifying political affiliation or a significant political affiliation.
	(3)	To avoid doubt, this section applies to the chargé d’affaires instead of section 9.
Part 3—Selection process for diplomatic appointments—procedural provisions
12  Minister may establish Selection Committees
Minister may establish Selection Committees
	(1)	The Minister may, by written instrument, establish a committee for the purpose of recommending an appointment to a designated diplomatic office.
	(2)	Each such committee is to be known as the Selection Committee for the appointment to the designated diplomatic office.
Members of Selection Committees
	(3)	A Selection Committee is to consist of 3 members.
	(4)	The members of a Selection Committee are to be appointed by the Minister by written instrument.
	(5)	In appointing a person as a member of a Selection Committee, the Minister must ensure that the Selection Committee’s members collectively have an appropriate balance of expertise, qualifications, skills or experience in the following:
	(a)	diplomacy;
	(b)	foreign policy;
	(c)	international affairs;
	(d)	international relations;
	(e)	international trade;
	(f)	public administration.
Other matters
	(6)	The rules may make provision for or in relation to Selection Committees, including (without limitation) for or in relation to the following:
	(a)	procedures to be followed by Selection Committees;
	(b)	meetings of Selection Committees (subject to section 13);
	(c)	dissolution of Selection Committees (subject to subsection 10(5));
	(d)	terms and conditions of appointment of members;
	(e)	remuneration of members;
	(f)	disclosure of interests by members;
	(g)	resignation of members;
	(h)	termination of appointment of members.
	(7)	An instrument made under subsection (1) or (4) is not a legislative instrument.
No more than one Selection Committee at a time
	(8)	No more than one Selection Committee for an appointment to a designated diplomatic office may be established at any one time (despite subsection (1)).
13  Meetings of Selection Committees
Decision to be made at a meeting
	(1)	A decision of a Selection Committee under subsection 10(3) must be made at a meeting of the Selection Committee.
Quorum
	(2)	At a meeting of a Selection Committee, a quorum is constituted by all 3 members.
Voting
	(3)	A question arising at a meeting of the Selection Committee is to be determined by a majority of the votes of the members.
Part 4—Miscellaneous
14  Overarching prohibition and consequences of non‑compliance
Appointments
	(1)	An appointment to a designated diplomatic office must not be made otherwise than in accordance with this Act.
	(2)	A failure to comply with subsection (1) does not affect the validity of the appointment.
	(3)	However, an appointment must be terminated as soon as practicable after the Minister becomes aware of any failure to comply with subsection (1) in relation to the appointment.
Chargé d’affaires
	(4)	An arrangement for a person to act in a designated diplomatic office must not be made otherwise than in accordance with this Act.
	(5)	A failure to comply with subsection (4) does not affect the validity of the arrangement.
	(6)	However, an arrangement must be terminated as soon as practicable after the Minister becomes aware of any failure to comply with subsection (4) in relation to the arrangement.
Commonwealth powers
	(7)	Nothing in subsections (3) and (6) limit a power of the Commonwealth to terminate an appointment or arrangement otherwise than under those subsections.
15  Appointments to which this Act applies
		This Act applies in relation an appointment made on or after the commencement of this section if the term of the appointment starts at least 12 months after that commencement.
16  Rules
	(1)	The Minister may, by legislative instrument, make rules prescribing matters:
	(a)	required or permitted by this Act to be prescribed by the rules; or
	(b)	necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Act.
	(2)	To avoid doubt, the rules may not do the following:
	(a)	create an offence or civil penalty;
	(b)	provide powers of:
	(i)	arrest or detention; or
	(ii)	entry, search or seizure;
	(c)	impose a tax;
	(d)	directly amend the text of this Act.
