                            ONLINE SAFETY
         (RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY) ACT 2025

         (No. 23 of 2025)

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
         Purposes of Act
     1.  General interpretation
     2.  Application of Act
     3.
     4.

                                       PART 2

                         ADMINISTRATION OF ACT

5. Appointment of Commissioner, Deputy Commissioners and
       Assistant Commissioners of Online Safety

6. Authorised officers
7. Consultation
8. Advisory guidelines

                                        PART 3

                       ONLINE HARMFUL ACTIVITIES

 9. Online harassment
10. Doxxing
11. Non‑consensual disclosure of private information
12. Online stalking
13. Intimate image abuse
14. Image‑based child abuse
15. Online impersonation
16. Inauthentic material abuse
17. Publication of false material
18. Publication of statement harmful to reputation
19. Online instigation of disproportionate harm
20. Incitement of enmity

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
2  NO. 23 OF 2025

Section
   21. Incitement of violence

                                            PART 4

                                          REPORTS

   22. Eligibility to make report
   23. Report of online harmful activity
   24. Assessment and investigation of report, etc.
   25. Trivial, frivolous or vexatious reports

                                            PART 5

                POWERS TO GIVE DIRECTIONS AND ORDERS

                              Division 1 — General matters

   26. Part 5 direction — general
   27. Part 5 direction — relevant factors
   28. Part 5 direction — given to whom

                              Division 2 — Part 5 directions

   29. Stop communication direction — content
   30. Stop communication (class of material) direction — content
   31. Restraining direction — content
   32. Access disabling direction — content
   33. Access disabling (class of material) direction — content
   34. Right‑of‑reply (user) direction — content
   35. Right‑of‑reply (online service) direction — content
   36. Reply notices must be easily perceived
   37. Labelling direction — content
   38. Account restriction (administrator) direction — content
   39. Account restriction (online service) direction — content
   40. Engagement reduction direction — content

                  Division 3 — Other matters relating to directions

   41. Part 5 directions — general supplementary provisions
   42. Part 5 direction — self‑initiated cancellation or substitution

                   Division 4 — Orders following non‑compliance

   43. Order following non‑compliance
   44. Access blocking order — content
   45. App removal order — content

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
         ONLINE SAFETY

         (RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                                      3

Section  Order following non‑compliance — general supplementary
   46.   provisions
         Order following non‑compliance — self‑initiated cancellation or
   47.   substitution

                                        PART 6

        INFORMATION AND END‑USER IDENTITY MATTERS

48. Retention of records
49. Power to require information and documents
50. Written notice may be given to persons outside Singapore, etc.
51. Power to examine and secure attendance
52. End‑user identity information collection notice
53. Disclosure of end‑user identity information or contact details
54. Preservation of secrecy
55. Disclosure of information

                                        PART 7

                    RECONSIDERATION AND APPEALS

56. Part 5 direction — eligibility to apply for reconsideration
57. Order following non‑compliance — eligibility to apply for

         reconsideration
58. Application for reconsideration of Commissioner’s decision,

         Part 5 direction or order following non‑compliance
59. Reconsideration of Commissioner’s decision, Part 5 direction or

         order following non‑compliance
60. Online Safety Appeal Panel and Online Safety Appeal

         Committees
61. Part 5 direction — eligibility to appeal
62. Order following non‑compliance — eligibility to appeal
63. Appeal against Commissioner’s reconsidered decision, etc.
64. Determination of appeal against Commissioner’s reconsidered

         decision, etc.
65. Powers of Appeal Committees
66. Allowances
67. Validity of act or proceeding

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
4        NO. 23 OF 2025

         PART 8

         OFFENCES AND ENFORCEMENT

Section  Notice to attend court
         Offence of providing false information, etc.
   68.   Publicity regarding non‑compliance with directions, etc.
   69.   Offences of non‑compliance with directions
   70.   Offences of non‑compliance with orders
   71.   Defences
   72.   Offences by corporations
   73.   Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   74.   Online harmful activity remedial initiative
   75.   Composition of offences
   76.   Jurisdiction of courts
   77.
   78.

                                           PART 9

                        GENERAL AND MISCELLANEOUS

   79. Service of documents
   80. Immunity
   81. General exemption for Parts 1 to 9
   82. Regulations for Parts 1 to 9

                                          PART 10

                   ONLINE HARMFUL ACTIVITIES — TORTS

   83. Tort of intimate image abuse
   84. Tort of image‑based child abuse
   85. Tort of online impersonation
   86. Tort of inauthentic material abuse
   87. Tort of online instigation of disproportionate harm
   88. Tort of incitement of violence

                                           PART 11

                  ADMINISTRATORS — DUTIES AND TORTS

   89. Application of this Part
   90. Tort of facilitating or permitting applicable online harmful

            activity
   91. Tort of failing to respond reasonably to online harm notice

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                                              5

Section
   92. Tort of sending frivolous or false online harm notices to
            administrators

                                           PART 12

           ONLINE SERVICE PROVIDERS — DUTIES AND TORTS

   93. Application of this Part
   94. Tort of failing to respond reasonably to online harm notice
   95. Tort of sending frivolous or false online harm notices to online

            service providers

                                           PART 13

                             DAMAGES AND REMEDIES

   96. Damages in proceedings under Part 10, 11 or 12
   97. Damages for incitement of violence
   98. Enhanced damages under Part 10 or section 90
   99. Reliefs and remedies against respondents in proceedings under

            Part 10, 11 or 12
  100. Orders against third parties in proceedings under Part 10, 11

            or 12

                                           PART 14

                      JURISDICTIONAL, PROCEDURAL AND
                             MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS

  101. Tort treated as taking place in Singapore
  102. Limits to exclusion of liability
  103. Regulations for Parts 10 to 14
  104. Rules of Court
  105. Family Justice Rules
  106. Commencement of proceedings in Family Court

                                           PART 15

                          AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS

  107. Amendment of Defamation Act 1957
  108. Amendment of Private Security Industry Act 2007
  109. Amendment of Protection from Harassment Act 2014
  110. Related amendment to Family Justice Act 2014

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
6        NO. 23 OF 2025

Section  Related amendment to Info-communications Media
  111.   Development Authority Act 2016
         The Schedule — Amendments to Protection from

                               Harassment Act 2014

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)  7

An Act to provide persons affected by online harmful activity with
  timely redress through the office of the Commissioner of Online
  Safety and rights of action in court proceedings, to improve and
  promote online safety, to deter and prevent online harmful activity,
  to promote accountability and responsible and reasonable conduct
  in the online environment, to make amendments to certain other
  Acts for alignment with this Act, and to make related amendments
  to other Acts.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
8  NO. 23 OF 2025

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title and commencement
 1.—(1) This Act is the Online Safety (Relief and Accountability)
Act 2025 and comes into operation on a date that the Minister
appoints by notification in the Gazette.
 (2) A notification made under this section may specify that different
provisions of the Schedule come into operation on different dates.

Purposes of Act
 2. The purposes of this Act are —
       (a) to provide persons affected by online harmful activity
            with —
               (i) timely means of redress; and
              (ii) statutory rights of action and remedies in court
                   proceedings;
       (b) to improve and promote online safety for persons;
       (c) to deter and prevent online harmful activity and mitigate
            harm caused to persons by such activity; and
       (d) to promote accountability and responsible and reasonable
            conduct among participants and stakeholders in the online
            environment.

General interpretation
 3.—(1) In this Act —
      “access”, in relation to any online activity, online material,
         online location or online service, includes —
              (a) access that is subject to a precondition, such as the
                   use of a password;
              (b) access by way of push technology;
              (c) access by way of a standing request; and
              (d) access for a limited time only;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               9

“access blocking order” means an order described in section 44;

“access disabling direction” means a direction described in
   section 32;

“access disabling (class of material) direction” means a direction
   described in section 33;

“account” includes —

        (a) a free account;

        (b) a prepaid account; and

        (c) anything that may reasonably be regarded as the
             equivalent of an account;

“account restriction (administrator) direction” means a direction
   described in section 38;

“account restriction (online service) direction” means a
   direction described in section 39;

“administrator”, in relation to an online location, means a person
   who —

        (a) develops and maintains the online location;

        (b) organises, manages or supervises the use of the
             online location;

        (c) manages or regulates membership of, or access to, the
             online location; or

        (d) has the authority to decide whether any material may
             be included on or excluded from the online location
             or where to place the material on the online location,
             or otherwise exercises editorial control over the
             online location,

   but does not include —

        (e) an online service provider which meets any of the
             criteria in paragraphs (a) to (d) only because the
             online location is made available through the service
             it provides;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
10  NO. 23 OF 2025

             (f) the provider of an internet access service, or of an app
                 distribution service, which meets any of the criteria in
                 paragraphs (a) to (d) only because the provider
                 provides such a service in relation to the online
                 location; and

            (g) a public agency;

                                          Illustrations

          (a) A provides a social media service. As the provider of that service, A
    has authority to decide whether material may be included on or excluded
    from any online location maintained using its service. B maintains an online
    location using A’s service. As the party that maintains that online location on
    A’s service, B has authority to decide whether material may be included on or
    excluded from the online location. A has authority to decide whether
    material may be included on or excluded from B’s online location only
    because the online location is made available through the service that A
    provides. B (and not A) is an administrator of that online location.

          (b) A provides a social media service. As the provider of that service, A
    has authority to decide whether material may be included on or excluded
    from any online location maintained using its service. A maintains an online
    location using A’s service. If the online location were instead maintained by
    B, A’s service would have given B (as the party that maintains that online
    location) the authority to decide whether material may be included on or
    excluded from that online location. A is an administrator of the online
    location maintained by A.

    “advertisement”, in relation to any material, includes online
        material announcing by any means any offer to sell or
        distribute the material;

    “app” means an application software package that includes
        content accessible by end‑users, or allows end‑users to access
        content on the Internet through the installed application
        software;

    “app distribution service” means an online service that enables
        the electronic or digital distribution or download of an app;

    “app removal order” means an order described in section 45;

    “Appeal Committee” means an Online Safety Appeal
        Committee constituted under section 60(4);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               11

“Appeal Panel” means the Online Safety Appeal Panel
   established by section 60(1);

“Assistant Commissioner” means an Assistant Commissioner of
   Online Safety appointed under section 5(2);

“authorised officer” means an individual appointed as an
   authorised officer under section 6;

“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Online Safety
   appointed under section 5(1);

“communicate” or “communication”, in relation to any material,
   means to make the material available to one or more persons
   in Singapore on or through the Internet, but —

        (a) an administrator does not communicate material
             communicated by another person at an online
             location, only because the administrator administers
             that online location;

        (b) an online service provider does not communicate
             material communicated by another person on or
             through an online service, only because it provides
             the online service on or through which the material is
             communicated;

        (c) a provider of an internet access service does not
             communicate material communicated by another
             person on or through an internet access service,
             only because it provides the internet access service on
             or through which the material is communicated; and

        (d) a provider of an app distribution service does not
             communicate material communicated by another
             person on or through an app distribution service,
             only because it provides the app distribution service
             on or through which the material is communicated;

                                      Illustration

     X posts a hyperlink to an image. X has communicated that image.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
12  NO. 23 OF 2025

    “communicator” —

            (a) in relation to relevant material, means a person who
                 communicates the relevant material; or

            (b) in relation to a relevant class of material, means a
                 person who communicates any online material in the
                 relevant class of material,

       but does not include a public agency;

    “Deputy Commissioner” means a Deputy Commissioner of
       Online Safety appointed under section 5(2);

    “doxxing” has the meaning given by section 10;

    “end‑user”, in relation to an online service, means a person who,
       whether or not in the course of business —

            (a) has access to any online activity; or

            (b) can conduct online activity,

       on or through the online service;

    “engagement reduction direction” means a direction described
       in section 40;

    “image” means a still, moving, recorded or unrecorded image
       and includes an image produced by any means and, where the
       context requires, a 3‑dimensional image;

    “image‑based child abuse” has the meaning given by section 14;

    “IMDA” means the Info‑communications Media Development
       Authority established by section 3 of the
       Info‑communications Media Development Authority
       Act 2016;

    “inauthentic material abuse” has the meaning given by
       section 16;

    “incitement of enmity” has the meaning given by section 20;

    “incitement of violence” has the meaning given by section 21;

    “instigate”, in relation to an act or omission, means to actively
       suggest, support, stimulate or encourage the act or omission;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               13

“intimate image abuse” has the meaning given by section 13;

“labelling direction” means a direction described in section 37;

“material” means information or material in any form, such as
    (but not limited to) —

        (a) material in oral, written, electronic or digital form;

        (b) material in audio, visual, audiovisual, pictorial or
             graphic form (for example, an anthropomorphic or
             humanlike depiction); and

        (c) material that consists of or contains a statement,

    and includes information or material in any combination of
    forms;

                                    Examples

      Examples of material are a message, a post, an article, a speech, a
picture, a video recording and a sound recording.

“non‑consensual disclosure of private information” has the
    meaning given by section 11;

“online account” means an account on an online service;

“online activity” means any activity (including but not limited to
    communication and publication) conducted by means of the
    Internet, which is conducted in or from Singapore or which is
    perceived by one or more persons in Singapore, and
    regulations may clarify the types of activities that are (or
    are not) online activities for the purposes of Parts 2 to 9;

“online harassment” —

        (a) for the purposes of Parts 4, 5 and 6, has the meaning
             given by section 9(1) to (4); and

        (b) for the purposes of Parts 11 and 12, has the meaning
             given by section 9(1), (2) and (3) only;

“online harmful activity” means any of the following types of
    online activities, other than an activity the definition of which
    in Part 3 has not been brought into operation:

        (a) online harassment;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
14  NO. 23 OF 2025

            (b) doxxing;

            (c) non‑consensual disclosure of private information;

            (d) online stalking;

            (e) intimate image abuse;

            (f) image‑based child abuse;

            (g) online impersonation;

            (h) inauthentic material abuse;

            (i) publication of false material;

            (j) publication of statement harmful to reputation;

            (k) online instigation of disproportionate harm;

            (l) incitement of enmity;

           (m) incitement of violence;

            (n) any other prescribed type of online activity that is
                 likely to cause harm to persons in Singapore (called
                 in this Act a prescribed online harmful activity);

    “online impersonation” has the meaning given by section 15;

    “online instigation of disproportionate harm” has (other than in
       Part 10) the meaning given by section 19;

    “online location” means any internet domain, website, webpage,
       chatroom, chat group, channel, group, forum, social media
       account page or any other location, that can be accessed by
       means of the Internet;

    “online material” means material (including any computer
       program, machine code and internet link) that can be
       accessed at an online location by means of the Internet;

    “online service” means the whole or any part of any service on
       or through which online activity can be conducted and which
       can be accessed by means of the Internet, and regulations
       may clarify the types of services that are (or are not) online
       services;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               15

“online service provider” means the provider (other than a
   public agency) of an online service, where the online service
   provided is neither an internet access service nor an app
   distribution service;

“online stalking” has the meaning given by section 12;
“order following non‑compliance” means any of the following

   orders made under Division 4 of Part 5:
        (a) an access blocking order;
        (b) an app removal order;

“owner”, in relation to an account, a relevant account or a
   relevant Singapore account, means a person who has control
   over the account and can use it to conduct online activity;

“Part 5 direction” means any of the following directions:
        (a) a stop communication direction;
        (b) a stop communication (class of material) direction;
        (c) a restraining direction;
        (d) an access disabling direction;
        (e) an access disabling (class of material) direction;
        (f) a right‑of‑reply (user) direction;
        (g) a right‑of‑reply (online service) direction;
        (h) a labelling direction;
        (i) an account restriction (administrator) direction;
        (j) an account restriction (online service) direction;
        (k) an engagement reduction direction;

“prescribed online service provider” means an online service
   provider or a class of online service providers prescribed by
   regulations;

“public agency” means —
        (a) the Government, including any ministry, department,
             agency or Organ of State;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
16  NO. 23 OF 2025

            (b) any board, commission, committee or tribunal
                 appointed under any written law;

            (c) any statutory body; or

            (d) any other board, commission, committee or similar
                 body appointed by the Government, or by a statutory
                 body, for a public purpose;

    “publication of false material” has the meaning given by
       section 17;

    “publication of statement harmful to reputation” has the
       meaning given by section 18;

    “publish” or “publication”, in relation to material or
       information, means to make the material or information
       available on or through the Internet in any form such that the
       material or information is heard, seen or otherwise perceived
       by the public in Singapore or a section of the public in
       Singapore, but —

            (a) an administrator does not publish material published
                 by another person at an online location, only because
                 the administrator administers that online location;

            (b) an online service provider does not publish material
                 published by another person on or through an online
                 service, only because it provides the online service on
                 or through which the material is published;

            (c) a provider of an internet access service does not
                 publish material published by another person on or
                 through an internet access service, only because it
                 provides the internet access service on or through
                 which the material is published; and

            (d) a provider of an app distribution service does not
                 publish material published by another person on or
                 through an app distribution service, only because it
                 provides the app distribution service on or through
                 which the material is published;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               17

“related person”, in relation to a person, means another person
   about whose safety or wellbeing the firstmentioned person
   would reasonably be expected to be seriously concerned;

“relevant account”, in relation to a notice, a direction or an order
   under this Act, means an online account identified in the
   notice, direction or order;

“relevant app”, in relation to a notice, a direction or an order
   under this Act, means an app identified in the notice,
   direction or order;

“relevant class of material”, in relation to a notice, a direction or
   an order under this Act, means a class of online material
   identified in the notice, direction or order;

“relevant location”, in relation to a notice, a direction or an order
   under this Act, means an online location identified in the
   notice, direction or order;

“relevant material”, in relation to a notice, a direction or an order
   under this Act, means online material identified in the notice,
   direction or order;

“relevant online activity”, in relation to a notice, a direction or an
   order under this Act, means online activity identified in the
   notice, direction or order;

“relevant service”, in relation to a notice, a direction or an order
   under this Act, means an online service identified in the
   notice, direction or order;

“relevant Singapore account”, in relation to a notice, a direction
   or an order under this Act, means a Singapore account
   identified in the notice, direction or order;

“reply notice” means material contained or referred to in a
   right‑of‑reply (user) direction or a right‑of‑reply (online
   service) direction which the recipient of the direction must
   communicate in Singapore;

“restraining direction” means a direction described in
   section 31;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
18  NO. 23 OF 2025

    “right‑of‑reply (online service) direction” means a direction
        described in section 35;

    “right‑of‑reply (user) direction” means a direction described in
        section 34;

    “Singapore account” means an online account whose owner
        is —

            (a) a citizen of Singapore;

            (b) a permanent resident of Singapore;

            (c) an entity formed, constituted or registered in
                 Singapore; or

            (d) an individual physically present in Singapore;

    “statement” means an expression of something using any word
        (including abbreviation and initial), number, image (moving
        or otherwise), sound, symbol or other representation, or a
        combination of any of these;

    “statutory body” means a body established or constituted by or
        under a public Act to perform or discharge a public function;

    “stop communication direction” means a direction described in
        section 29;

    “stop communication (class of material) direction” means a
        direction described in section 30.

(2) In this Act —

      (a) a reference to a notice, a direction or an order under this
           Act includes a reference to the notice, direction or order (as
           the case may be) as varied or substituted under this Act;

      (b) a reference to communication of material includes a
           reference to causing the communication of the material;

      (c) a reference to publication of material includes a reference
           to causing the publication of the material; and

      (d) a reference to administration of an online location is a
           reference to the function which a person undertakes as an
           administrator of the online location.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               19

                                          Illustration
      X uses a bot to publish on a website insulting material that is likely to cause Y
harassment. X has caused the insulting material to be published on the Internet.

Application of Act

 4.—(1) A public agency may not make a report under section 22(1)
or (3), but a public agency may —

       (a) on behalf of a person —

               (i) make a report under Part 4; or

              (ii) make an application for reconsideration or appeal
                   under Part 7; or

       (b) assist a person to —

               (i) make a report under Part 4; or

              (ii) make an application for reconsideration or appeal
                   under Part 7.

 (2) A public agency must not be given a direction or an order under
Part 5 or a direction under Part 7.

 (3) A public agency may not commence any claim in civil
proceedings under Part 10, 11 or 12, and shall not be liable in any
proceedings under any of those Parts.

                                    PART 2

                      ADMINISTRATION OF ACT

Appointment of Commissioner, Deputy Commissioners and
Assistant Commissioners of Online Safety

 5.—(1) The Minister may appoint any person to be the
Commissioner of Online Safety who is responsible for the
administration of Parts 2 to 9 and to perform the following functions:

       (a) to provide persons affected by online harmful activity with
            timely means of redress;

       (b) to promote online safety for persons;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
20  NO. 23 OF 2025

       (c) to perform the powers and duties of the Commissioner
            under this Act or any other written law subject to the
            general or special directions of the Minister;

       (d) to administer Parts 2 to 9 subject to the general or special
            directions of the Minister;

       (e) to collaborate with the IMDA and any other public
            agencies, organisations or persons for the promotion of
            online safety;

        (f) to inform and advise the Minister on matters relating to this
            Act;

       (g) to perform any other functions and duties as the Minister
            may assign to the Commissioner.

 (2) The Minister may in writing appoint any number of Deputy
Commissioners of Online Safety and Assistant Commissioners of
Online Safety that the Minister considers necessary or expedient for
the purposes of Parts 2 to 9.

 (3) An appointment under subsection (1) must be published in the
Gazette.

 (4) The Commissioner, a Deputy Commissioner or an Assistant
Commissioner appointed under subsection (1) or (2) is deemed to be a
public servant for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

 (5) Subject to the directions of the Commissioner, the powers and
duties of the Commissioner under this Act may be exercised and
discharged by a Deputy Commissioner or an Assistant
Commissioner.

 (6) The Minister may give the Commissioner directions of a
general or special character, that are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, as to the exercise of the powers and discretion
conferred on the Commissioner, and the duties imposed on the
Commissioner, by this Act.

 (7) The Commissioner must give effect to any directions given
under subsection (6).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               21

Authorised officers

 6.—(1) The Commissioner may appoint any of the following
individuals as an authorised officer:

       (a) a public officer;

       (b) any officer or employee of a statutory body;

       (c) any other individual who has suitable training or expertise
            to properly exercise the functions and powers delegated to
            an authorised officer.

 (2) The Commissioner may, for any reason that appears to the
Commissioner to be sufficient, at any time revoke an individual’s
appointment as an authorised officer.

 (3) Every authorised officer appointed under subsection (1) is
deemed to be a public servant for the purposes of the Penal
Code 1871.

 (4) The Commissioner may delegate the exercise of all or any of the
functions or powers of the Commissioner (except the power of
appointment and delegation conferred by this section and the power
to issue advisory guidelines under section 8) to one or more
authorised officers, and any reference in a provision of this Act or
the regulations to the Commissioner includes a reference to an
authorised officer to whom the function or power under that provision
has been delegated.

 (5) Any delegation under subsection (4) may be general or for a
particular case and may be subject to such conditions or limitations as
set out in this Act or as the Commissioner may specify, and does not
prevent the Commissioner from exercising the delegated function or
power.

 (6) The Commissioner may give an authorised officer directions of
a general or specific character, that are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, as to the exercise of the powers and duties
delegated to the authorised officer under this Act.

 (7) The authorised officer must give effect to any directions given
under subsection (6).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
22  NO. 23 OF 2025

Consultation

 7. For the purposes of performing any of the Commissioner’s duties
and functions under this Act, the Commissioner may consult with any
person that the Commissioner thinks appropriate.

Advisory guidelines

 8.—(1) The Commissioner may issue written advisory
guidelines —

       (a) for the purposes of providing practical guidance or
            certainty in respect of any one or more requirements
            imposed under Parts 1 to 9;

       (b) indicating the manner in which the Commissioner will
            interpret the provisions of this Act; and

       (c) on any other matter about any online harmful activity or
            online safety that the Commissioner considers necessary.

 (2) The advisory guidelines may —

       (a) be of general or specific application; or

       (b) specify that different provisions of the advisory guidelines
            apply to different circumstances or are applicable to
            different persons or classes of persons.

 (3) The Commissioner may amend or revoke the whole or part of
any advisory guidelines issued under subsection (1).

 (4) Advisory guidelines issued or amended under this section do
not have any legislative effect.

 (5) The Commissioner must publish the advisory guidelines in any
way that the Commissioner thinks fit, but failure to comply with this
subsection in respect of any advisory guidelines does not invalidate
those advisory guidelines.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               23

                                    PART 3

                   ONLINE HARMFUL ACTIVITIES

Online harassment

 9.—(1) In this Act, “online harassment” means the communication
of online material that a reasonable person would conclude is —

       (a) threatening, abusive, insulting, sexual or indecent; and

       (b) likely to cause a person (called in this section the victim)
            harassment, alarm, distress or humiliation.

                                          Illustration

      X is a photo‑journalist who documents indigenous tribes. X takes a
photograph of a group of naked tribespeople preparing a meal and posts it
online as part of X’s work. X’s post is not material that a reasonable person would
conclude is sexual or indecent.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), “online harassment” does
not include the communication of sexual or indecent material that has
a legitimate purpose related to science, medicine, education or art.

     Explanation.— Online material has a legitimate purpose related to art which
a reasonable person would regard as art.

                                         Illustrations

      (a) X, the supervisor of a counselling service provider, circulates training
material with case studies of sexually harassing online posts in an internal
messaging group for counsellors. X’s communication has a legitimate purpose
related to education.

      (b) X posts sex‑education graphics in a messaging group with X’s
colleagues. The material is unrelated to the group’s work, and X continues to
do so despite requests from X’s colleagues to stop because they find it harassing.
X’s posts do not have a legitimate purpose related to science, medicine, education
or art.

 (3) To avoid doubt, where a person (X) is not the person to whom
the communication in subsection (1) is directed, X may also be a
victim within the meaning of that subsection if, by reason of X’s
personal relationship with the person to whom the communication
was directed, the communication is likely to cause X harassment,
alarm, distress or humiliation.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
24  NO. 23 OF 2025

                                         Illustrations

      (a) X reads threats on the Internet directed at another person, Y, with whom X
has no relationship. A reasonable person would not conclude that X is likely to be
caused harassment, alarm, distress or humiliation from reading these threats. X is
not a victim within the meaning of subsection (1).

      (b) X reads threats on the Internet directed at X’s child, Y. A reasonable
person would conclude that X is likely to be caused harassment, alarm, distress or
humiliation from reading these threats. X is a victim within the meaning of
subsection (1), even if X is not expressly mentioned in the threats.

 (4) A communication of online material that does not on its own
satisfy the requirements of subsection (1), is nevertheless treated as
satisfying those requirements if it would satisfy those requirements
when considered together with one or more other communications of
online material, and after taking into account —

       (a) the number of all the communications made;

       (b) the period of time within which all the communications are
            made;

       (c) the nature of each communication or all the
            communications when taken as a whole; and

       (d) the circumstances in which each communication or all the
            communications when taken as a whole is or are made.

Doxxing

 10.—(1) In this Act, “doxxing” means the publication of any
identity information of a person that a reasonable person would
conclude was likely to have been intended to cause harassment,
alarm, distress or humiliation to that person or any related person
(each called in this section the victim).

 (2) In this section, “identity information” means any information
that, whether on its own or with other information, identifies or
purports to identify a person, including (but not limited to) any of the
following:

       (a) the person’s name, residential address, email address,
            telephone number, date of birth, national registration
            identity card number, passport number, signature

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               25

            (whether handwritten or electronic), password or
            identification code;

       (b) any photograph or video recording of the person;

       (c) any information about the person’s family, employment or
            education.

Non‑consensual disclosure of private information

 11.—(1) In this Act, “non‑consensual disclosure of private
information” means the publication of any private information of a
person (called in this section the victim), where —

       (a) the publication was done without the victim’s consent; and

       (b) a reasonable person would conclude that the publication
            was likely to cause the victim harassment, alarm, distress
            or humiliation.

 (2) In this section, “private information” means any information
about a person that was not, prior to the publication, widely available
to the public at large, and regulations may clarify the types of
information that are (or are not) to be considered private information
for the purposes of this section.

                                          Illustration

      X discloses, without Y’s consent, that Y is suffering from a neurocognitive
disease. This fact was not widely available to the public prior to X’s disclosure and
Y did not exhibit any symptom in public. This fact is Y’s private information.

 (3) This section does not apply to any private information of a
person that was obtained by perceiving in public or through publicly
available information such as —

       (a) the physical appearance of the person; or

       (b) the conduct or activities of the person.

Online stalking

 12.—(1) In this Act, “online stalking” means a course of online
conduct engaged in by one person (called in this section the online
stalker) in respect of another person (called in this section the
victim) —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
26  NO. 23 OF 2025

       (a) that involves online acts or omissions associated with
            stalking; and

       (b) that a reasonable person would conclude is likely to cause
            the victim harassment, alarm, distress or humiliation.

 (2) The following are examples of online acts or omissions, in
particular circumstances, associated with stalking:

       (a) making any communication, or attempting to make any
            communication, by any means —

               (i) to the victim or a related person;

              (ii) relating or purporting to relate to the victim or a
                   related person; or

             (iii) purporting to originate from the victim or a related
                   person;

       (b) engaging in online activity in any online location (whether
            public or private) which is visited by the victim or a related
            person;

       (c) making a presence felt to the victim or a related person in
            any online location (whether public or private).

                                         Illustrations

      The following online activities involve acts associated with stalking of X
by Y:

      (a) Y repeatedly posts emojis or symbols on X’s social media account page
even though X has asked Y on multiple occasions to stop interacting with X.

      (b) Y sends messages to the social media accounts of many family members
and friends of X, with disparaging comments about X.

      (c) X has blocked Y on a social media service and told Y to stop associating
with X. Despite this, Y joins every online community that X is part of across
multiple social media services, and persistently makes Y’s presence felt to X by
engaging in online activity in these communities, even though Y cannot
communicate with X directly.

      The following online activity does not involve acts associated with stalking
of X by Y:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               27

      (d) Y uses Y’s social media account to follow X’s public social media page
and regularly checks for updates in a case where X has not taken steps to stop Y
from doing so.

 (3) The following factors are relevant in considering whether a
reasonable person would conclude a course of online conduct is likely
to cause the victim harassment, alarm, distress or humiliation:

       (a) the number of occasions on which the online acts or
            omissions associated with stalking were carried out;

       (b) the frequency and the duration of the online acts or
            omissions associated with stalking that were carried out;

       (c) the manner in which the online acts or omissions
            associated with stalking were carried out;

       (d) the circumstances (not limited to online acts or omissions)
            in which the online acts or omissions associated with
            stalking were carried out;

       (e) the particular combination of online acts or omissions
            associated with stalking comprised in the course of online
            conduct;

        (f) the likely effects of the course of online conduct on the
            victim’s safety, health, reputation, economic position, or
            the victim’s freedom to do any act which he or she is
            legally entitled to do or not to do any act which he or she is
            not legally bound to do;

       (g) the circumstances of the victim, including his or her
            physical or mental health and personality.

 (4) In this section, “course of online conduct” means online
conduct —

       (a) on one occasion, if —

               (i) the conduct is protracted; or

              (ii) the online stalker has a previous conviction under
                   section 7 of the Protection from Harassment
                   Act 2014 in respect of the same victim; or

       (b) on 2 or more occasions in any other case.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
28  NO. 23 OF 2025

Intimate image abuse

 13.—(1) In this Act, “intimate image abuse” means the
communication of online material —

       (a) that contains, without a person’s (called in this section the
            victim) consent —

               (i) an intimate image or recording of the victim;

              (ii) an offer to sell or distribute an intimate image or
                   recording of the victim; or

             (iii) an advertisement of an intimate image or recording
                   of the victim; and

       (b) that a reasonable person would conclude is likely to cause
            the victim harassment, alarm, distress or humiliation.

 (2) In this section —

      “distribute” includes any of the following conduct, whether
         done in person, electronically, digitally or in any other way:

              (a) to send, publish, supply, show, exhibit, transmit or
                   communicate to another person;

              (b) to make available for viewing or access by another
                   person;

      “intimate image or recording”, in relation to a person —

              (a) means an image or a recording (including an image or
                   a recording that has been altered or generated by any
                   means) —

                     (i) of the person’s genital or anal region, whether
                          bare or covered by underwear;

                     (ii) of the person’s breasts if the person is a female,
                          whether bare or covered by underwear; or

                    (iii) of the person doing a private act; but

              (b) excludes an image or a recording that no reasonable
                   person would believe depicts that person.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               29

                                             Illustrations

            (a) A copies, crops, and pastes an image of B’s face onto the image of a
      body of a person who is engaging in a sexual act. This image has been altered
      to appear to show that B is engaged in the sexual act. This is an intimate
      image of B.

            (b) A pastes an image of B’s face onto a cartoon depicting an unknown
      person performing a sexual act. No reasonable person would believe that B
      was performing the sexual act. This is not an intimate image of B, but the
      communication of such an image may, depending on the circumstances,
      constitute online harassment.

            (c) A uses digital means, including generative artificial intelligence
      technology, to create a realistic audiovisual representation of B engaging in a
      sexual act. This is an intimate recording of B.

 (3) In this section, a person is doing a private act if, under
circumstances in which the person has a reasonable expectation of
privacy, the person —

       (a) is in a state where the person’s genital or anal region, or
            breasts (if the person is a female), are exposed or covered
            only by underwear;

       (b) is using a toilet, showering or bathing; or

       (c) is doing a sexual act that is not of a kind ordinarily done in
            public.

                                          Illustration

      A is showering in an open‑concept shower cubicle at the changing room of a
swimming pool and cannot reasonably expect not to be casually observed.
However, A has a reasonable expectation of privacy that A will not be recorded by
a video camera and the recording communicated online. A is doing a private act.

Image‑based child abuse

 14.—(1) In this Act, “image‑based child abuse” means the
communication of online material that contains any of the following:

       (a) a child abuse image or recording of a person (called in this
            section the victim);

       (b) an offer to sell or distribute a child abuse image or
            recording of the victim;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
30  NO. 23 OF 2025

       (c) an advertisement of a child abuse image or recording of the
            victim;

       (d) any material which appears to be designed or
            communicated in such a way as to lead to any child
            abuse image or recording of the victim.

    Explanation.— Material in subsection (1)(d) includes phrases, keywords,
descriptions, hints or hyperlinks published on an online location which enable a
person interested in viewing a child abuse image or recording of the victim to
locate or access it.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), “child abuse image or
recording” means an image or a recording (including an image or a
recording that has been altered or generated by any means) of a
person who is, or appears to a reasonable person to be, or who is
implied to be, below 16 years of age (called in this section a child) —

       (a) that depicts the child —

               (i) as a victim of torture, cruelty or physical abuse
                   (whether or not the torture, cruelty or abuse is
                   sexual);

              (ii) as a victim of sexual abuse;

             (iii) engaging in, or apparently engaging in, a sexual pose
                   or sexual activity (whether or not in the presence of
                   another person); or

             (iv) in the presence of another person who is engaging in,
                   or apparently engaging in, a sexual pose or sexual
                   activity;

       (b) that depicts the genital or anal region (whether exposed or
            covered) of the child where the depiction is sexual and in
            circumstances (whether or not apparent from the depiction)
            which a reasonable person would regard as offensive; or

       (c) that depicts the breasts (whether exposed or covered) of a
            female child where the depiction is sexual and in
            circumstances (whether or not apparent from the
            depiction) which a reasonable person would regard as
            offensive.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               31

 (3) Despite subsection (1), “image‑based child abuse” does not
include the communication of material that —

       (a) has a legitimate purpose related to science, medicine,
            education or art; and

       (b) does not pose an undue risk of harm to any person below
            16 years of age.

    Explanation.— Material has a legitimate purpose related to art which a
reasonable person would regard as art.

                                          Illustration

      A is a photo‑journalist in a war zone. A takes a photo of a child victim of
torture and communicates this online as part of A’s work as a photo‑journalist. A’s
communication has a legitimate purpose related to education.

 (4) In this section, “distribute” has the meaning given by
section 13(2).

Online impersonation

 15. In this Act, “online impersonation” means online activity
conducted by one person (called in this section X) in respect of
another person (called in this section the victim) which —

       (a) involves X pretending to be the victim without the victim’s
            consent; and

       (b) would lead a reasonable person to believe that the online
            activity was conducted by the victim when this was not in
            fact the case.

    Explanation.— Parody, satire or commentary which no reasonable person
would believe is made by a person is not online impersonation of that person.

                                          Illustration

      X, a comedian, performs on X’s social media an impersonation of a public
figure for the purposes of entertainment and satire, which no reasonable person
would believe is performed by that public figure. X’s online activity is not online
impersonation.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
32  NO. 23 OF 2025

Inauthentic material abuse

 16.—(1) In this Act, “inauthentic material abuse” means the
communication of inauthentic material of a person (called in this
section the victim) that a reasonable person would conclude is likely
to cause the victim harassment, alarm, distress or humiliation
because it is false or misleading.

                                          Illustration

      X posts inauthentic material of Y with prominent words on the representation
indicating that it is generated using generative artificial intelligence technology.
This is not material that persons in Singapore would reasonably believe is
authentic.

 (2) In this section, “inauthentic material”, in relation to a victim,
means any audio, visual or audiovisual material —

       (a) that has been altered or generated using digital means;

       (b) that is a false or misleading depiction, whether express or
            implied, of the victim’s words, actions or conduct, even
            though the victim may not appear in the material; and

       (c) that is realistic enough such that a reasonable person
            would believe that the victim said such words or engaged
            in such actions or conduct.

      Explanation 1.—A depiction of the victim saying or engaging in anything
includes a depiction of the victim’s likeness saying or engaging in that thing.

      Explanation 2.—The technology known as generative artificial intelligence
is an example of digital means by which content could be altered or generated.

                                         Illustrations

      (a) X posts an image of Y standing on a stage, with a text bubble
superimposed on the image containing words allegedly spoken by Y. The image is
not realistic enough for a reasonable person to believe Y spoke those words.

      (b) X posts audiovisual material depicting Y engaged in certain conduct,
with a prominent label on the material indicating that it is generated using
generative artificial intelligence technology. Because of this label, the material is
not realistic enough for a reasonable person to believe Y engaged in that conduct.

      (c) X posts an image of a car driving into a pedestrian. This image was
created by taking a photograph of a car and digitally replacing its number plate
with that of a car belonging to Y, so that it implies that Y had driven Y’s car into the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               33

pedestrian. The image is realistic enough such that a reasonable person would
believe Y had done so. This is inauthentic material depicting Y’s conduct, even
though Y does not appear in the image.

Publication of false material

 17.—(1) In this Act, “publication of false material” means —

       (a) the publication of online material that contains or consists
            of a false statement of fact about a person (called in this
            section the victim); and

       (b) that a reasonable person would conclude is likely to cause
            harm to the victim.

 (2) The following apply for the purposes of ascertaining whether
online material contains or consists of a statement of fact which bears
a particular meaning:

       (a) the statement is to be ascertained from a reasonable
            interpretation of the online material whether wholly or in
            part, and whether on its own or in the context in which it
            appears;

       (b) there can be more than one reasonable interpretation of the
            online material;

       (c) a statement of fact is a statement that a reasonable person
            seeing, hearing or otherwise perceiving it would consider
            to be a representation of fact.

Publication of statement harmful to reputation

 18.—(1) In this Act, “publication of statement harmful to
reputation” means the publication of online material that contains
or consists of a statement that a reasonable person would conclude is
likely to cause to a person (called in this section the victim) —

       (a) harm to the reputation of the victim; and

       (b) any other additional harm to the victim.

 (2) The following apply for the purposes of ascertaining whether
online material contains or consists of a statement which bears a
particular meaning:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
34  NO. 23 OF 2025

       (a) the statement is to be ascertained from a reasonable
            interpretation of the online material whether wholly or in
            part, and whether on its own or in the context in which it
            appears;

       (b) there can be more than one reasonable interpretation of the
            online material;

       (c) the statement may be a statement of fact or an opinion, and
            if a statement of fact, it may be a true or false statement of
            fact.

Online instigation of disproportionate harm

 19.—(1) In this Act (other than Part 10), “online instigation of
disproportionate harm” means the communication of online material
that contains or consists of a statement where the following
requirements are met:

       (a) the statement tends to instigate the public or a section of
            the public to act or omit to act in response to an alleged
            speech or conduct of a person (called in this section the
            victim) or a person associated with the victim (called in
            this section the victim’s associate);

       (b) the act or omission that the statement tends to instigate
            would increase the risk of the victim suffering harm;

       (c) the act or omission or the harm mentioned in
            paragraph (b) is disproportionate to —

               (i) where the statement tends to instigate a response to
                   an alleged speech or conduct of the victim — the
                   wrongfulness (if any) of the alleged speech or
                   conduct, or of any relevant actual speech or
                   conduct, of the victim; or

              (ii) where the statement tends to instigate a response to
                   an alleged speech or conduct of the victim’s
                   associate —

                     (A) the wrongfulness (if any) of the alleged speech
                          or conduct, or of any relevant actual speech or
                          conduct, of the victim’s associate; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               35

                     (B) the extent and nature of the association (if any)
                          between the victim and the victim’s associate’s
                          alleged or actual speech or conduct, as the
                          case may be.

                                          Illustration

      A is the father of B. B acted in a highly offensive manner. C makes a statement
that tends to instigate the public to act in a manner that increases the risk of harm
to A in response to B’s conduct. In assessing the extent and nature of the
association (if any) between the victim and the victim’s associate’s conduct (as
mentioned in subsection (1)(c)(ii)(B)), so as to determine whether the requirement
of disproportionality in subsection (1)(c) is met, the Commissioner may consider
whether A taught B to act or not to act in that way.

 (2) The following apply for the purposes of ascertaining whether
online material contains or consists of a statement which bears a
particular meaning:

       (a) the statement is to be ascertained from a reasonable
            interpretation of the online material whether wholly or in
            part, and whether on its own or in the context in which it
            appears;

       (b) there can be more than one reasonable interpretation.

 (3) In assessing whether the requirement of disproportionality in
subsection (1)(c) is satisfied, the Commissioner may consider —

       (a) the nature of the act or omission that the statement tends to
            instigate, including whether the act or omission is or is
            likely to constitute a criminal offence under any written
            law;

       (b) the nature of the harm mentioned in subsection (1)(b),
            including the severity of that harm;

       (c) whether the victim or the victim’s associate did in fact
            engage in the alleged speech or conduct;

       (d) whether the alleged speech or conduct, or any relevant
            actual speech or conduct of the victim or the victim’s
            associate, would be a reasonable expression of an opinion
            on a matter of public interest or public controversy; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
36  NO. 23 OF 2025

       (e) any other relevant factor.

 (4) This section does not apply where the act or omission that the
statement tends to instigate is any of the following:

       (a) voting for any candidate in an election for the purpose of
            electing the President or a Member of Parliament;

       (b) conducting or otherwise participating in or attending a
            political activity;

       (c) communicating a statement calling for the removal or
            suspension of a political office holder or Member of
            Parliament from his or her office;

       (d) communicating a statement to a political office holder, a
            Member of Parliament or a public body on a matter of
            public interest or public controversy.

 (5) In this section —

      “candidate” has the meaning given by the Presidential
         Elections Act 1991 or the Parliamentary Elections
         Act 1954, as the case may be;

      “political activity” includes —

              (a) any activity that is directed to influence, or seek to
                   influence, the outcome of an election to the office of
                   the President, a general election of Members of
                   Parliament, a by‑election of a Member of
                   Parliament, or a referendum;

              (b) any activity that is directed towards promoting the
                   interests of a political party or other group of persons
                   organised in Singapore for a political object; and

              (c) any activity that is directed to bring about, or seek to
                   bring about, changes of the law in the whole or a part
                   of Singapore, or to otherwise influence, or seek to
                   influence, the legislative process or outcome in
                   Singapore;

      “political office holder” means the holder of the office of —

              (a) the President;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               37

              (b) the Prime Minister;

              (c) a Deputy Prime Minister;

              (d) a Minister, Senior Minister or Co‑ordinating
                   Minister;

              (e) a Senior Minister of State or Minister of State;

              (f) a Senior Parliamentary Secretary or Parliamentary
                   Secretary;

              (g) the Speaker of Parliament or a Deputy Speaker of
                   Parliament;

              (h) a Mayor;

              (i) a Political Secretary; or

              (j) the Leader of the House;

      “public body” means —

              (a) the Government, including any ministry, department,
                   agency or Organ of State;

              (b) a prescribed statutory body; and

              (c) any prescribed board, prescribed commission,
                   prescribed committee or similar prescribed body,
                   whether corporate or unincorporate.

Incitement of enmity

 20.—(1) In this Act, “incitement of enmity” means the
communication of online material that a reasonable person would
conclude incites, or is likely to incite, feelings of enmity, hatred or
hostility against any group in Singapore.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to —

       (a) communication which is private or domestic in nature,
            having regard to —

               (i) the number of persons who are likely to hear, see or
                   otherwise perceive the communication in question;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
38  NO. 23 OF 2025

              (ii) the relationship between the persons that the
                   communication is being or has been made; and

             (iii) all other relevant circumstances; or

       (b) communication made in circumstances that may
            reasonably be taken to indicate that the parties to the
            communication desire it to be heard, seen or otherwise
            perceived only by themselves.

 (3) To avoid doubt, the definition in subsection (1) is not satisfied
solely because one or more persons feel offended by or uncomfortable
with the material mentioned in that subsection.

 (4) The following factors are relevant in considering whether a
reasonable person would conclude that a communication incites, or
is likely to incite, feelings of enmity, hatred or hostility against any
group in Singapore:

       (a) whether the material dehumanises any person or persons,
            or otherwise portrays them as less than human;

       (b) the intensity of the feelings of enmity, hatred or hostility
            that are incited or are likely to be incited;

       (c) the tendency of the material to incite any act or omission
            that is or is likely to constitute a criminal offence under any
            written law.

 (5) In this section, “group” means a group of persons of any
description.

Incitement of violence

 21.—(1) In this Act, “incitement of violence” means the
communication of online material that a reasonable person would
conclude incites or is likely to incite one or more persons to use
unlawful force or unlawful violence against any group in Singapore.

 (2) In this section, “group” means a group of persons of any
description.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               39

                                    PART 4

                                   REPORTS

Eligibility to make report

 22.—(1) A victim of an alleged online harmful activity (other than
incitement of enmity and incitement of violence) who is —

       (a) a citizen of Singapore;

       (b) a permanent resident of Singapore; or

       (c) a person who has a prescribed connection to Singapore,

is eligible to make a report to the Commissioner about the alleged
online harmful activity.

 (2) The following persons are eligible to make a report to the
Commissioner on behalf of a victim mentioned in subsection (1):

       (a) where the victim is below 18 years of age, the victim’s
            parent or guardian;

       (b) a person (including a public agency) of such description as
            may be prescribed, and different descriptions of persons
            may be prescribed in relation to each type or description of
            online harmful activity;

       (c) a person (including a public agency) whom or which the
            Commissioner is satisfied has obtained the written
            authorisation or written consent to make the report on
            behalf of the victim.

 (3) A person is eligible to make a report to the Commissioner about
any alleged incitement of enmity or incitement of violence if the
person —

       (a) is a citizen of Singapore, a permanent resident of
            Singapore or a person who has a prescribed connection
            to Singapore; and

       (b) fulfils the requirements that are prescribed in relation to
            the report on alleged incitement of enmity or incitement of
            violence, as the case may be.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
40  NO. 23 OF 2025

 (4) In this section, “victim” means the victim mentioned —

       (a) in Part 3, in the definition of the type of online harmful
            activity that is the subject of the report mentioned in
            subsection (1); or

       (b) in the definition of any prescribed type of online harmful
            activity mentioned in paragraph (n) of the definition of
            “online harmful activity” in section 3(1).

Report of online harmful activity

 23.—(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), a person eligible to
make a report under section 22(1), (2) or (3) may make a report of the
alleged online harmful activity to the Commissioner.

 (2) A person making a report under subsection (1) must comply
with any prescribed requirements, which may include preconditions
which must be satisfied before the report is made, and different
requirements may be prescribed in relation to each type or description
of online harmful activity.

 (3) A report made under subsection (1) must be —

       (a) made in the form and manner that the Commissioner may
            determine; and

       (b) accompanied by any other particulars, statements,
            information or documents as the Commissioner may
            require.

Assessment and investigation of report, etc.

 24.—(1) On receiving a report under section 23(1), the
Commissioner must assess the report to determine whether or what
further action, including any investigation, is appropriate under this
Act.

 (2) The Commissioner may, subject to any written law, seek and
receive any information that the Commissioner considers will assist
the Commissioner in the conduct of the Commissioner’s assessment
or investigation.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               41

 (3) The Commissioner may, for the purposes of an investigation
under this section, exercise the powers of investigation set out in
sections 49 and 51.

 (4) The Commissioner may suspend, discontinue or refuse to assess
a report, or the conduct of an investigation, or the taking of any
further action under this section, if the Commissioner thinks fit,
including but not limited to any of the following circumstances:

       (a) the person who made the report is not a person who is
            eligible to make a report under section 22;

       (b) the person who made the report did not comply with any
            prescribed requirement mentioned in section 23(2);

       (c) the report did not comply with any requirement under
            section 23(3);

       (d) the Commissioner is of the opinion that the matter may be
            more appropriately addressed by another public agency
            and has referred the matter to that public agency;

       (e) the Commissioner is of the opinion that —

               (i) the report has been resolved; or

              (ii) any other circumstances warrant such suspension,
                   discontinuation or refusal.

Trivial, frivolous or vexatious reports

 25.—(1) The Commissioner may dismiss any report made under
this Act, without any assessment, investigation or further action, if
the Commissioner is satisfied that the report is trivial, frivolous or
vexatious or not made in good faith.

 (2) The Commissioner may decide that any future report by or from
a person specified by the Commissioner will not be considered, if the
Commissioner is satisfied that the person had persistently made
trivial, frivolous or vexatious reports under this Act (including but not
limited to reports made on behalf of another person).

 (3) The Commissioner may decide that any future report in respect
of a matter will not be considered, if the Commissioner is satisfied

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
42  NO. 23 OF 2025

that one or more persons had persistently made trivial, frivolous or
vexatious reports in respect of that matter.

 (4) The Commissioner may convey the Commissioner’s decision
under subsection (2) or (3) to the person affected, and in doing so may
specify the matters and the period for which it applies, which must not
exceed 3 years after the date of the decision.

 (5) The Commissioner’s decision under this section is final and not
subject to reconsideration or appeal under this Act.

                                    PART 5

         POWERS TO GIVE DIRECTIONS AND ORDERS

                       Division 1 — General matters

Part 5 direction — general

 26.—(1) Subject to subsections (5) and (6), after receiving a report
made by or on behalf of a person mentioned in section 22(1) or (3),
the Commissioner may give one or more Part 5 directions if the
Commissioner has reason to suspect that online harmful activity was
conducted in respect of the person or the group, as the case may be.

 (2) To avoid doubt, the Commissioner may conclude that there is
such reason to suspect as mentioned in subsection (1), solely on the
basis of an examination of the report (and without having to conduct
any further investigation).

 (3) A Part 5 direction may be given to —

       (a) any individual whether or not a resident or citizen of
            Singapore, whether physically present in Singapore or
            outside Singapore, and whether carrying on a business or
            operating in Singapore or outside Singapore; or

       (b) any entity whether formed, constituted or registered in
            Singapore or outside Singapore, and whether carrying on a
            business or operating in Singapore or outside Singapore.

 (4) A Part 5 direction may direct a person to do an act or to not do an
act, whether in Singapore or outside Singapore.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               43

 (5) Only a right‑of‑reply (user) direction or a right‑of‑reply (online
service) direction may be given in respect of a publication of false
material as defined in section 17, unless the false material published
contains or consists of a false statement of fact that the victim —

       (a) approved, endorsed, promoted, provided a testimonial for
            or invested in; or

       (b) is affiliated or associated with,

any genuine or purported —

       (c) trade;

       (d) investment;

       (e) business;

        (f) commercial activity; or

       (g) online location soliciting funding, donations or financial
            support.

                                         Illustrations

      (a) X publishes a false statement that Y recommends the services of a
particular business. This is a false statement of fact that Y endorsed the business.

      (b) X publishes a false statement that Y is a consultant for a purported new
investment scheme. This is a false statement of fact that Y is associated with the
investment scheme.

      (c) X organises a conference to launch new products as part of X’s business.
Y attended the conference. X publishes a series of uncaptioned photographs of the
audience at this conference, one of which showed Y among a crowd of other
attendees. This photograph of Y does not contain or consist of a statement of fact
that Y approved, endorsed, promoted, provided a testimonial for or invested in, or
is affiliated or associated with, X’s business.

 (6) Only a right‑of‑reply (user) direction or a right‑of‑reply (online
service) direction may be given in respect of a publication of
statement harmful to reputation as defined in section 18.

Part 5 direction — relevant factors

 27. In deciding whether to give a Part 5 direction, or the type and
scope of the direction to be given in each case, the Commissioner may
take into account all or any of the following factors:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
44                      NO. 23 OF 2025

    (a) the degree of the harm caused or likely to be caused, by the
         online harmful activity;

    (b) the number of persons harmed or likely to be harmed, by
         the online harmful activity;

    (c) the manner and circumstances in which the online harmful
         activity occurred;

    (d) whether the conduct of the online harmful activity was
         reasonable;

    (e) the likelihood of further online harmful activity being
         conducted;

    (f) whether the direction would be contrary to any public
         policy;

    (g) whether the direction would be in the public interest;

    (h) any factor that may be prescribed;

    (i) any other relevant factor.

Part 5 direction — given to whom

 28. The Part 5 directions and the persons to whom they may be
given are listed in the following table:

          Direction                Recipient may be
1. Stop communication
                        (a) The communicator of the
   direction                 relevant material.

2. Stop communication   (b) An administrator of the relevant
   (class of material)       location at which the relevant
   direction                 material is communicated.

                        (c) An administrator of the relevant
                             location.

                        (a) The communicator of any
                             online material in the relevant
                             class of material.

                        (b) The administrator of a relevant
                             location at which any online

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
                         ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                                   45

Direction                            Recipient may be

                            material in the relevant class of
                            material is communicated.

3. Restraining direction    (a) The communicator of the
                                 relevant material.

                            (b) The person who conducted the
                                 relevant online activity.

                            (c) An administrator of the relevant
                                location.

4. Access disabling         An online service provider.
   direction

5. Access disabling (class A prescribed online service provider.
   of material) direction

6. Right‑of‑reply (user)    (a) The communicator of the
   direction                     relevant material.

                            (b) An administrator of the relevant
                                 location.

7. Right‑of‑reply (online An online service provider.
   service) direction

8. Labelling direction      An administrator of the relevant
                            location.

9. Account restriction      An administrator of the relevant

(administrator) direction location.

10. Account restriction     An online service provider.

(online service) direction

11. Engagement reduction A prescribed online service provider.
     direction

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
46  NO. 23 OF 2025

                      Division 2 — Part 5 directions

Stop communication direction — content

 29.—(1) A stop communication direction is a direction requiring
the recipient to do one or more of the following, and by the time
specified in the direction, such that the relevant material or the
relevant location (as the case may be) cannot be accessed by persons
in Singapore:

       (a) to remove the relevant material;

       (b) to stop storing, posting, providing or transmitting the
            relevant material;

       (c) to suspend, remove, delete or terminate the relevant
            location.

 (2) The stop communication direction may also require the
recipient to do one or more of the following, and by the time
specified in the direction, such that online material similar to the
relevant material cannot be accessed by persons in Singapore:

       (a) to remove any online material similar to the relevant
            material;

       (b) to stop storing, posting, providing or transmitting any
            online material similar to the relevant material.

Stop communication (class of material) direction — content

 30.—(1) A stop communication (class of material) direction is a
direction requiring the recipient to do one or more of the following,
and by the time specified in the direction, such that the relevant class
of material cannot be accessed by persons in Singapore:

       (a) to remove the relevant class of material;

       (b) to stop storing, posting, providing or transmitting the
            relevant class of material.

 (2) The relevant class of material mentioned in subsection (1) must
be identified in the direction by one or more specific identifiers which
relate to the online harmful activity concerned.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               47

                                           Examples

      Examples of specific identifiers are —

      (a) a username which a piece of online material is tagged with;

      (b) a specific term which a piece of online material contains; and

      (c) the online location which a piece of online material is communicated at.

 (3) In addition to applying to online material that is made accessible
to persons in Singapore before or on the date the direction is given, a
stop communication (class of material) direction may also apply to
online material that is first made accessible to persons in Singapore
after the date the direction is given.

 (4) To avoid doubt, a stop communication (class of material)
direction is not invalid merely because, apart from applying to online
material communicated through an online harmful activity, the
direction also applies to online material not communicated through
an online harmful activity.

Restraining direction — content

 31. A restraining direction is a direction requiring the recipient to
refrain, for a specified period or indefinitely, from all or any of the
following:

       (a) where the recipient had communicated the relevant
            material — communicating any online material similar
            or identical to the relevant material;

       (b) where the recipient had conducted the relevant online
            activity — conducting any online activity similar or
            identical to the relevant online activity;

       (c) where the recipient had developed and maintained, or
            otherwise administered the relevant location — developing
            and maintaining, or otherwise administering an online
            location accessible to persons in Singapore in a manner
            that facilitates or permits the conduct of the relevant online
            activity at that location.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
48  NO. 23 OF 2025

Access disabling direction — content

 32.—(1) An access disabling direction is a direction requiring the
recipient to disable access by end‑users in Singapore to one or more
of the following, and by the time specified in the direction:

       (a) any relevant material stored, posted, provided or
            transmitted on or through the relevant service;

       (b) any relevant location on the relevant service.

 (2) Where the recipient mentioned in subsection (1) is a prescribed
online service provider, the access disabling direction may also
require the recipient to disable access by end‑users in Singapore to
online material identical to the relevant material stored, posted,
provided or transmitted on or through the relevant service.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), where the recipient mentioned in
subsection (1) is a prescribed online service provider and an access
disabling direction imposes a requirement under subsection (1)(b) to
disable access to a relevant location, the direction may additionally —

       (a) specify relevant material which is or was accessible at that
            relevant location; and

       (b) require the recipient to disable access by end‑users in
            Singapore to other locations on the relevant service at
            which the recipient knows or ought reasonably to know
            online material identical to the relevant material mentioned
            in paragraph (a) can be accessed.

 (4) The requirement in subsection (3)(b) may only be imposed for a
period specified in the direction not exceeding 2 years after the date
the access disabling direction is given.

Access disabling (class of material) direction — content

 33.—(1) An access disabling (class of material) direction is a
direction requiring the recipient to disable access by end‑users in
Singapore to any relevant class of material stored, posted, provided or
transmitted on or through the relevant service.

 (2) The relevant class of material mentioned in subsection (1) must
be identified in the access disabling (class of material) direction by

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               49

one or more specific identifiers which relate to the online harmful
activity concerned.

                                           Examples

      Examples of specific identifiers are —

      (a) a username which a piece of online material is tagged with;

      (b) a specific term which a piece of online material contains; and

      (c) the online location which a piece of online material is communicated at.

 (3) In addition to applying to online material that is made accessible
to persons in Singapore before or on the date the direction is given, an
access disabling (class of material) direction may also apply to online
material that is first made accessible to end‑users in Singapore after
the date the direction is given.

 (4) To avoid doubt, an access disabling (class of material) direction
is not invalid merely because, apart from applying to online material
communicated through an online harmful activity, the direction also
applies to online material not communicated through an online
harmful activity.

Right‑of‑reply (user) direction — content

 34.—(1) A right‑of‑reply (user) direction is a direction requiring
the recipient to communicate in Singapore a reply notice, in relation
to relevant material communicated in Singapore, within a specified
time —

       (a) to any specified person or description of persons; and

       (b) in a specified form and manner.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(b), a requirement to
communicate in Singapore a reply notice in a specified form and
manner may include a requirement to communicate the reply
notice —

       (a) at a specified online location; or

       (b) in specified proximity to the relevant material.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1)(b), a requirement to
communicate in Singapore a reply notice in a specified form and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
50  NO. 23 OF 2025

manner may also include a requirement to communicate the reply
notice in specified proximity to every copy of any material
substantially similar to the relevant material that is communicated
by the recipient in Singapore.

 (4) A right‑of‑reply (user) direction may only be given in respect of
a publication of false material as defined in section 17, a publication
of statement harmful to reputation as defined in section 18, and an
online instigation of disproportionate harm as defined in section 19.

 (5) In addition to applying to online material that is made
accessible to persons in Singapore before or on the date the
right‑of‑reply (user) direction is given, the requirement in
subsection (3) may also apply to online material (substantially
similar to the relevant material) that is first made accessible to
persons in Singapore after the date the right‑of‑reply (user) direction
is given.

 (6) In this section, “specified” means specified in the right‑of‑reply
(user) direction.

 (7) To avoid doubt, in this section, material that is substantially
similar to the relevant material includes material that is identical to
the relevant material.

Right‑of‑reply (online service) direction — content

 35.—(1) A right‑of‑reply (online service) direction is a direction
requiring the recipient to communicate a reply notice, by means of the
online service provided by the recipient, to all end‑users in Singapore
who access the relevant material provided on or through the online
service from any specified time.

 (2) Where the recipient mentioned in subsection (1) is a prescribed
online service provider, the right‑of‑reply (online service) direction
may also require the recipient to do one or more of the following:

       (a) communicate the reply notice by means of the online
            service provided by the recipient to all end‑users in
            Singapore who access online material identical to the
            relevant material provided on or through the online service
            from a specified time;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
   ONLINE SAFETY

   (RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               51

       (b) communicate the reply notice by any means and by a
            specified time, to all end‑users in Singapore that it knows
            had accessed the relevant material or online material
            identical to the relevant material (or both) by means of the
            online service at any time before the specified time
            mentioned in subsection (1).

 (3) A right‑of‑reply (online service) direction may only be given in
respect of a publication of false material as defined in section 17, a
publication of statement harmful to reputation as defined in
section 18 and an online instigation of disproportionate harm as
defined in section 19.

 (4) In this section —

       (a) an end‑user in Singapore who accesses a part of any
            material is taken to access the material;

       (b) “specified” means specified in the right‑of‑reply (online
            service) direction.

Reply notices must be easily perceived

 36.—(1) A person who is required by a right‑of‑reply (online
service) direction to communicate a reply notice must ensure that the
notice is easily perceived.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), a reply notice is easily perceived if —

       (a) the notice (not being an audio recording) is conspicuous,
            regardless of the type of online service or device used by
            the end‑user or viewer;

.  Illustration

       A notice that is in a text form is conspicuous if it is sufficiently
   differentiated from the background and is of a reasonable type size
   compared to the rest of the text on the same page.

   (b) the notice is easy to read, view or listen to, and not easy to
        miss;

.  Illustrations

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
52  NO. 23 OF 2025

                   (a) A notice that is an audio recording is easy to listen to if it is in
              a volume and cadence sufficient for it to be heard and understood.

                   (b) A notice that is a video recording or a dynamic display is easy
              to view if it appears for a duration sufficient for it to be viewed and
              understood.

                   (c) A notice that is in a text form or the form of a video recording
              or dynamic display is easy to miss if it is contained in a pop‑up
              window, insofar as access to it may be easily disabled.

       (c) the notice (not being an audio recording) is placed near the
            relevant material or material identical to the relevant
            material (as the case may be), and in a location where
            end‑users or viewers are likely to look; or

       (d) the end‑user or viewer is not required to access another
            online location or any other thing in order to comprehend
            the notice.

                                          Illustration

      An example of such requirement is the mere provision of a hyperlink to the
notice or a part of it.

 (3) For the purposes of this section and without limiting the manner
of complying with subsection (1), a notice is taken to be easily
perceived if the notice is published in accordance with such measures
as may be prescribed by regulations (called in this section the
prescribed measures).

 (4) A right‑of‑reply (online service) direction must not impose any
requirement that is inconsistent with the prescribed measures.

 (5) If the Commissioner is of the view that subsection (1) is not
complied with, the Commissioner may require, by written notice, the
person to whom the direction is given to take, within such time as may
be specified in the notice, such measures as the Commissioner
considers necessary or desirable to remedy the non‑compliance.

Labelling direction — content

 37.—(1) A labelling direction is a direction requiring the recipient
to publish a label —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               53

       (a) at the relevant location; and

       (b) in the form and manner specified in the direction,

to all persons in Singapore who access the relevant location, for a
period specified in the direction, not exceeding 18 months after the
date the labelling direction is given.

 (2) In this section, “label” means a notice in the terms specified in
the direction, that —

       (a) the recipient has been subject to one or more Part 5
            directions (which have not been cancelled, revoked or
            substituted); or

       (b) online harmful activity that was the subject of one or more
            Part 5 directions (which have not been cancelled, revoked
            or substituted) had occurred at the relevant location.

Account restriction (administrator) direction — content

 38.—(1) An account restriction (administrator) direction is a
direction requiring the recipient to disallow or restrict, by the
specified time, a relevant Singapore account from accessing the
relevant location —

       (a) for a specified period; or

       (b) indefinitely.

 (2) An account restriction (administrator) direction may also
require the recipient to disallow or restrict access to the relevant
location —

       (a) for a specified period; or

       (b) indefinitely,

by any account which the recipient knows or ought reasonably to
know was created by the owner of the relevant Singapore account
after the direction had been given.

 (3) Any requirement to disallow or restrict access mentioned in
subsection (2), imposed on the recipient, may apply to the recipient
for a specified period not exceeding 2 years after the date the
direction is given.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
54  NO. 23 OF 2025

 (4) In this section, “specified” means specified in the account
restriction (administrator) direction.

Account restriction (online service) direction — content

 39.—(1) An account restriction (online service) direction is a
direction requiring the recipient to do one or more of the following by
the specified time:

       (a) disallow or restrict interaction between any relevant
            account on the relevant service and end‑users in
            Singapore —

               (i) for a specified period; or

              (ii) indefinitely;

       (b) disable any relevant Singapore account on the relevant
            service —

               (i) for a specified period; or

              (ii) indefinitely.

 (2) Where the recipient mentioned in subsection (1) is a prescribed
online service provider, an account restriction (online service)
direction imposing a requirement under subsection (1)(a) may also
require the recipient to disallow or restrict interaction —

       (a) for a specified period; or

       (b) indefinitely,

between end‑users in Singapore and any account that the recipient
knows or ought reasonably to know was created by the owner of the
relevant account after the direction had been given.

 (3) Where the recipient mentioned in subsection (1) is a prescribed
online service provider, an account restriction (online service)
direction imposing a requirement under subsection (1)(b) may also
require the recipient to disable any Singapore account —

       (a) for a specified period; or

       (b) indefinitely,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               55

that the recipient knows or ought reasonably to know was created by
the owner of the relevant Singapore account after the direction had
been given.

 (4) Any requirement to disallow or restrict interaction or to disable
an account, mentioned in subsection (2) or (3) respectively, imposed
on the recipient, may apply to the recipient for a specified period not
exceeding 2 years after the date the direction is given.

 (5) In this section, “specified” means specified in the account
restriction (online service) direction.

Engagement reduction direction — content

 40.—(1) An engagement reduction direction is a direction requiring
the recipient to reduce the engagement of end‑users in Singapore with
the relevant class of material that is stored, posted, provided or
transmitted on or through the relevant service.

 (2) The relevant class of material mentioned in subsection (1) must
be identified in the direction by one or more specific identifiers which
relate to the online harmful activity concerned.

                                           Examples

      Examples of specific identifiers are —

      (a) a username which a piece of online material is tagged with;

      (b) a specific term which a piece of online material contains; and

      (c) the online location which a piece of online material is communicated at.

 (3) An engagement reduction direction may apply for a specified
period not exceeding 3 months after the date the direction is given.

 (4) An engagement reduction direction may apply to online
material that is first made accessible to end‑users in Singapore
before, on or after the date the direction is given.

 (5) An engagement reduction direction must so far as is reasonably
practicable, specify the measure or measures which the recipient is to
take to reduce engagement, in a way that is sufficient to enable the
person given the direction to comply with the direction.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
56  NO. 23 OF 2025

 (6) In this section, “engagement” means any form of interaction
between an end‑user in Singapore and any material stored, posted,
provided or transmitted on or through the relevant service.

                                           Examples

      Examples of engagement include viewing, commenting on and otherwise
reacting to a piece of online material.

           Division 3 — Other matters relating to directions

Part 5 directions — general supplementary provisions

 41.—(1) A Part 5 direction may be given to a person either
individually or as a class.

 (2) A Part 5 direction is binding on —

       (a) the recipient; and

       (b) if applicable, the personal representatives, successors and
            assignees of the recipient to the same extent as it applies to
            the recipient.

 (3) It is not necessary to give any person who may be affected by a
Part 5 direction an opportunity to be heard before the direction is
given.

 (4) A Part 5 direction must —

       (a) so far as is reasonably practicable, identify the account,
            app, online material (or class of online material) or online
            location (as the case may be) to which the direction relates
            in a way that is sufficient to enable the recipient to comply
            with the direction;

       (b) state that it is an offence under this Act to fail to comply
            with the direction; and

       (c) state that the recipient may apply for reconsideration of the
            direction or appeal against the direction.

 (5) A Part 5 direction may state whether the recipient must do all or
any of the following, whichever being applicable:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               57

       (a) notify the Commissioner by the time specified in the
            direction of the means by which the recipient proposes to
            comply with the direction;

       (b) keep records of information about the matters that are the
            subject of the direction for a time specified in the direction;

       (c) regularly notify the Commissioner at the times specified in
            the direction about the steps being taken towards
            compliance with the direction;

       (d) give written notice to the Commissioner when the recipient
            has complied with the direction.

 (6) The recipient of a Part 5 direction must comply with the Part 5
direction until the earlier of the following occurs:

       (a) the expiry date and time (if any) stated in the direction is
            reached;

       (b) the Part 5 direction is cancelled, revoked or substituted
            under section 42(1), 59(1) or 64.

Part 5 direction — self‑initiated cancellation or substitution

 42.—(1) The Commissioner may at any time, on his or her own
initiative —

       (a) cancel a Part 5 direction;

       (b) vary a Part 5 direction; or

       (c) substitute a Part 5 direction with a Part 5 direction of a
            different type.

 (2) Where a Part 5 direction is cancelled under subsection (1)(a),
written notice of the cancellation must be given to every person who
has been given that Part 5 direction.

            Division 4 — Orders following non‑compliance

Order following non‑compliance

 43.—(1) The Commissioner may give an order following
non‑compliance if any person has not complied with a requirement

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
58  NO. 23 OF 2025

of a Part 5 direction, unless the direction is a right‑of‑reply (user)
direction or a right‑of‑reply (online service) direction.

 (2) An order following non‑compliance may be given to —

       (a) any individual whether or not a resident or citizen of
            Singapore, whether physically present in Singapore or
            outside Singapore, and whether carrying on a business or
            operating in Singapore or outside Singapore; or

       (b) any entity whether formed, constituted or registered in
            Singapore or outside Singapore, and whether carrying on a
            business or operating in Singapore or outside Singapore.

 (3) An order following non‑compliance may direct a person to do
an act or to not do an act, whether in Singapore or outside Singapore.

Access blocking order — content

 44.—(1) An access blocking order is an order requiring the
provider of an internet access service to disable access by
end‑users in Singapore to the relevant location by means of that
internet access service, by the time specified in the access blocking
order.

 (2) The relevant location specified in the access blocking order
must be —

       (a) an online location of an administrator who did not comply
            with a Part 5 direction in respect of —

               (i) that online location;

              (ii) any online material accessible at that online location;
                   or

             (iii) any online activity conducted at that online location;
                   or

       (b) an online location at which an online service of an online
            service provider can be accessed, where the online service
            provider did not comply with a Part 5 direction in respect
            of —

               (i) that online service;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               59

              (ii) any online account, app, online material or online
                   location accessible on or through that online service;
                   or

             (iii) any online activity conducted on or through that
                   online service.

App removal order — content

 45.—(1) An app removal order is an order requiring the provider of
an app distribution service to stop distributing the relevant app to
persons in Singapore and stop enabling persons in Singapore to
download the relevant app by means of that service, by the time
specified in the app removal order.

 (2) The relevant app specified in the app removal order must be an
app used exclusively to access an online service provided by an
online service provider which did not comply with a Part 5 direction
in respect of —

       (a) that online service;

       (b) any online account, online material or online location
            accessible on or through that online service; or

       (c) any online activity conducted on or through that online
            service.

Order following non‑compliance — general supplementary
provisions

 46.—(1) An order following non‑compliance is binding on —

       (a) the recipient; and

       (b) if applicable, the personal representatives, successors and
            assignees of the recipient to the same extent as it applies to
            that recipient.

 (2) It is not necessary to give any person who may be affected by an
order following non‑compliance an opportunity to be heard before
the order is given.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
60  NO. 23 OF 2025

 (3) An order following non‑compliance must —

       (a) so far as is reasonably practicable, identify the relevant
            location, the relevant app or the relevant service (as the
            case may be) to which the order relates in a way that is
            sufficient to enable the recipient to comply with the order;

       (b) state that it is an offence under this Act to fail to comply
            with the order; and

       (c) state that the recipient may apply for reconsideration of the
            order or appeal the order.

 (4) An order following non‑compliance may state whether the
recipient must do all or any of the following, whichever being
applicable:

       (a) notify the Commissioner by the time specified in the order
            of the means by which the recipient proposes to comply
            with the order;

       (b) keep records of information about the matters that are the
            subject of the order for a time specified in the order;

       (c) regularly notify the Commissioner at the times specified in
            the order about the steps being taken towards compliance
            with the order;

       (d) give written notice to the Commissioner when the person
            has complied with the order.

 (5) The recipient of an order following non‑compliance must
comply with the order until the earlier of the following occurs:

       (a) the expiry date and time (if any) stated in the order is
            reached;

       (b) the order is cancelled, revoked or substituted under
            section 47(1), 59(1) or 64(2).

Order following non‑compliance — self‑initiated cancellation
or substitution

 47.—(1) The Commissioner may at any time, on his or her own
initiative —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               61

       (a) cancel an order following non‑compliance;

       (b) vary an order following non‑compliance; or

       (c) substitute an access blocking order with an app removal
            order or vice versa.

 (2) Where an order following non‑compliance is cancelled under
subsection (1)(a), written notice of the cancellation must be given to
every person who has been given that order.

                                    PART 6

    INFORMATION AND END‑USER IDENTITY MATTERS

Retention of records

 48.—(1) The Commissioner may, by written notice, require an
online service provider to retain all relevant records in relation to —

       (a) any alleged online harmful activity that is the subject of a
            report made under Part 4; or

       (b) any end‑user who is the subject of a written notice under
            section 52,

for one year after the date of the notice in this section or any longer
period specified in the notice.

 (2) An online service provider who fails to comply with any written
notice issued under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) if the online service provider is an individual, to a fine not
            exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 3 months or to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

Power to require information and documents

 49.—(1) The Commissioner may, by written notice, require any
person to provide, in the form and manner and within the time
specified in the notice, any information or document (whether the
information or document is stored or kept in Singapore or outside

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
62  NO. 23 OF 2025

Singapore) relating to any matter that the Commissioner may require
for the purposes of this Act, as is within that person’s knowledge, in
that person’s custody or under that person’s control.

 (2) The Commissioner may require the recipient of the notice
mentioned in subsection (1) to provide any information or document
for the following purposes:

       (a) the investigation by the Commissioner of any report that
            was made under Part 4;

       (b) the Commissioner’s determination of whether to give a
            Part 5 direction under section 26 or an order following
            non‑compliance under section 43;

       (c) the Commissioner’s determination under section 59 of any
            application for reconsideration made under section 58;

       (d) assisting the Appeal Committee pursuant to a request made
            by the Appeal Committee under section 65(1)(b);

       (e) the Commissioner’s identification of an end‑user, if the
            Commissioner reasonably suspects that that end‑user has
            conducted online harmful activity;

        (f) the Commissioner’s investigation of any offence under this
            Act, if the Commissioner reasonably suspects that such an
            offence has been committed;

       (g) any other prescribed purpose necessary for the exercise of
            the functions, powers or duties of the Commissioner under
            this Act.

 (3) The power to require a person to provide any information or
document under subsection (1) includes the power —

       (a) to require that person, or any person who is or was an
            officer or employee of that person, to provide an
            explanation of the information or document;

       (b) if the information or document is not provided, to require
            that person to state, to the best of his or her knowledge and
            belief, where it is;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               63

       (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
            form, to require the information to be made available to the
            Commissioner in legible form; and

       (d) if the information or document is contained in or available
            to a computer or other electronic device, and the person is
            reasonably suspected to have knowledge of or access to
            any username, password or other authentication
            information required to gain access to the information or
            document, to require the person to provide assistance
            (including but not limited to providing any username,
            password or other authentication information) to gain
            access to the computer or electronic device and the
            information or document contained in or available to it.

 (4) The Commissioner is entitled without payment to keep any
information or document, or any copy or extract of it, provided to the
Commissioner under subsection (1).

 (5) A person shall be guilty of an offence if the person —

       (a) is given a written notice under subsection (1); and

       (b) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with that
            written notice,

whether in Singapore or outside Singapore.

 (6) Any person guilty of an offence under subsection (5) shall be
liable on conviction —

       (a) if the person is an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 months or to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

Written notice may be given to persons outside Singapore, etc.

 50. A written notice under section 49 may be given to —

       (a) any individual whether or not a resident or citizen of
            Singapore, whether physically present in Singapore or
            outside Singapore, and whether carrying on a business or
            operating in Singapore or outside Singapore; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
64  NO. 23 OF 2025

       (b) any entity whether formed, constituted or registered in
            Singapore or outside Singapore, and whether carrying on a
            business or operating in Singapore or outside Singapore.

Power to examine and secure attendance

 51.—(1) The Commissioner may do all or any of the following for
the purposes of investigating any report made under Part 4 or any
offence under this Act if the Commissioner reasonably suspects that
such an offence has been committed:

       (a) issue a written order requiring anyone within the limits of
            Singapore, who appears to be acquainted with any of the
            facts and circumstances of matters under this Act, to attend
            before him or her, and that person must attend as required;

       (b) examine orally any person who appears to be acquainted
            with the facts and circumstances of matters under this Act.

 (2) Any person examined under this section is bound to state truly
what the person knows of the facts and circumstances concerning
matters under this Act, except that the person need not say anything
that might expose the person to a criminal charge, penalty or
forfeiture.

 (3) A statement made by any person examined under this section
must —

       (a) be reduced to writing;

       (b) be read over to the person;

       (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted
            for him or her in a language that the person understands;
            and

       (d) after correction, if necessary, be signed by the person.

 (4) If any person fails to attend as required by an order under
subsection (1), the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction —

       (a) if the person is an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 months or to both; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               65

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

End‑user identity information collection notice

 52.—(1) Where the Commissioner reasonably suspects that an
end‑user has engaged in online harmful activity by means of an online
service provided by a prescribed online service provider, the
Commissioner may, by written notice, require the prescribed online
service provider to —

       (a) take reasonable steps to obtain specified information of
            that end‑user that may identify or lead to the identification
            of that end‑user (whether that end‑user is in Singapore or
            outside Singapore);

       (b) provide to the Commissioner the specified information
            collected within a specified time; and

       (c) inform the Commissioner, by a specified time, of all the
            steps that have been taken by this time to obtain the
            specified information mentioned in paragraph (a).

 (2) The reasonable steps mentioned in subsection (1)(a) may
include requiring the end‑user to provide the specified information
in order to continue using some or all functions of the online service.

 (3) A prescribed online service provider who fails to comply with
the notice mentioned in subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) if the prescribed online service provider is an individual, to
            a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term
            not exceeding 12 months or to both and, in the case of a
            continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $2,000
            for every day or part of a day during which the offence
            continues after conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $500,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $50,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
66  NO. 23 OF 2025

 (4) The Minister may prescribe steps or measures that, if taken by
the prescribed online service provider, would constitute the
reasonable steps mentioned in subsection (1)(a).

 (5) An online service provider may be prescribed whether the
provider is located or operating in Singapore or outside Singapore.

Disclosure of end‑user identity information or contact details

 53.—(1) The Commissioner may, upon the receipt of an application
by a person mentioned in subsection (2) (called in this section the
applicant), and despite sections 54 and 55, disclose to the applicant
any identity information or contact details of an end‑user that is
known to the Commissioner, whether or not obtained by the
Commissioner under section 49, 51 or 52.

 (2) The following persons may make an application under
subsection (1):

       (a) a person who is eligible to make a report under
            section 22(1) or (3);

       (b) a person who may make a report to the Commissioner on
            behalf of a victim under section 22(2)(a) or (c).

 (3) The Commissioner may make a disclosure under subsection (1)
only if —

       (a) the Commissioner is satisfied that the identity information
            or contact details relates to an end‑user whom the
            Commissioner reasonably suspects has engaged in online
            harmful activity in relation to the applicant, the victim or
            the group, as the case may be;

       (b) the disclosure is for a prescribed purpose; and

       (c) the application mentioned in subsection (1) is —

               (i) submitted in writing to the Commissioner within the
                   prescribed period or any longer period as the
                   Commissioner may allow;

              (ii) made in the form and manner determined by the
                   Commissioner; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               67

             (iii) accompanied by the prescribed fee and any
                   particulars, statements, information or documents
                   that may be required by the Commissioner.

 (4) The Commissioner may, in approving the application, impose
any conditions on the applicant in relation to any information
disclosed under subsection (1), including restraining the applicant
from publishing, directly or indirectly, the information or using,
directly or indirectly, the information for any purpose other than the
purpose for which the application was approved.

 (5) An applicant who fails to comply with any condition imposed
under subsection (4) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction —

       (a) if the applicant is an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            12 months or to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $50,000.

Preservation of secrecy

 54.—(1) A specified person who has information in his or her
capacity as such that would not otherwise be available to him or her,
must not disclose that information to any person except —

       (a) in the performance of the specified person’s functions or
            duties;

       (b) where the specified person is not the Commissioner —
            with the prior authorisation of the Commissioner to do so;
            or

       (c) as lawfully required by any court, or lawfully required or
            allowed by or under this Act or any other written law.

 (2) A person who fails to comply with subsection (1) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

 (3) In this section and section 55, “specified person” means a
person who is or has been —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
68  NO. 23 OF 2025

       (a) the Commissioner;

       (b) a Deputy Commissioner;

       (c) an Assistant Commissioner;

       (d) an authorised officer;

       (e) any person authorised, appointed or employed to assist the
            Commissioner; or

        (f) a member of a committee appointed under this Act or a
            secretary to the committee or a person acting under their
            direction.

Disclosure of information

 55.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, the Commissioner may
disclose to any person, or authorise any specified person to disclose to
any person, any information obtained pursuant to an exercise of the
Commissioner’s powers and functions under this Act, if the
Commissioner is satisfied that such disclosure is —

       (a) necessary to enable a public agency to perform its public
            duty in relation to online harmful activity under this Act;

       (b) in accordance with and to the extent permitted by a data
            sharing direction given to the Commissioner;

       (c) in the interest of public safety;

       (d) necessary or expedient for the redress or prevention of any
            online harmful activity or other harm to any person;

       (e) for the purposes of an investigation into or prosecution for
            an offence under any written law;

        (f) consented to in writing by the person to whom the
            information relates or by the parent or guardian of the
            person if he or she is below 18 years of age (called in this
            section a minor); or

       (g) to give effect to the purposes of or any provision of this
            Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), where a minor is suspected to
be involved in any online harmful activity (whether as a victim or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               69

otherwise), the Commissioner may disclose or authorise any
specified person to disclose to the parent or guardian or other
immediate relative of the minor or the principal or a teacher of the
school that the minor is attending for the purposes of counselling,
redress or prevention.

 (3) The Commissioner may, for the purposes of public education
and awareness, disclose and publish information in an anonymised
form relating to any report received by the Commissioner, the action
taken by the Commissioner and the outcome of the action.

 (4) In this section, “data sharing direction” means a direction given
under section 4 of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018 on the
sharing of information or re‑identification of anonymised
information under the control of a Singapore public sector agency.

                                    PART 7

                RECONSIDERATION AND APPEALS

Part 5 direction — eligibility to apply for reconsideration

 56. The following persons are eligible to apply under section 58(1)
to the Commissioner for reconsideration of the Commissioner’s
decision to give (or not to give) a Part 5 direction in relation to a
report made under section 23(1):

       (a) the person eligible to make a report under section 22(1) or
            (3) (as the case may be) who made the report (called in this
            section the relevant person), or the victim on whose behalf
            the report was made by a person eligible to do so under
            section 22(2);

       (b) where the relevant person or victim mentioned in
            paragraph (a) is below 18 years of age, the relevant
            person’s or the victim’s parent or guardian;

       (c) the person of a prescribed description mentioned in
            section 22(2)(b) who made the report under section 23(1);

       (d) a person (including a public agency) whom or which the
            Commissioner is satisfied has obtained the written
            authorisation or written consent to make an application

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
70  NO. 23 OF 2025

            under section 58(1) on behalf of the relevant person or
            victim mentioned in paragraph (a);

       (e) the recipient of a Part 5 direction that was given;

        (f) a person affected by a Part 5 direction that was given, who
            is of such description as may be prescribed, and different
            descriptions of persons may be prescribed in relation to
            each type of Part 5 direction given by the Commissioner.

Order following non‑compliance — eligibility to apply for
reconsideration

 57. The following persons are eligible to apply under section 58(1)
to the Commissioner for reconsideration of the Commissioner’s
decision to give an order following non‑compliance:

       (a) the recipient of the order following non‑compliance;

       (b) a person affected by the order following non‑compliance
            who is of such description as may be prescribed, and
            different descriptions of persons may be prescribed in
            relation to each type of order following non‑compliance
            given by the Commissioner.

Application for reconsideration of Commissioner’s decision,
Part 5 direction or order following non‑compliance

 58.—(1) Subject to section 25(5), a person who is eligible to apply
under section 56 or 57 to the Commissioner for reconsideration of a
decision, direction or order made under Part 5 (called in this section
and in section 59 the initial decision, direction or order) may make a
written application to the Commissioner to reconsider the respective
initial decision, direction or order in accordance with this section.

 (2) The application for reconsideration must —

       (a) be submitted to the Commissioner within the prescribed
            period or such longer period as the Commissioner may
            allow;

       (b) be made in the form and manner determined by the
            Commissioner;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               71

       (c) be accompanied by any other particulars, statements,
            information or documents as the Commissioner may
            require; and

       (d) set out the reasons for which the applicant is requesting the
            reconsideration.

 (3) Unless the Commissioner decides otherwise in any particular
case, an application for reconsideration does not suspend the effect of
the initial decision, direction or order sought to be reconsidered.

Reconsideration of Commissioner’s decision, Part 5 direction
or order following non‑compliance

 59.—(1) Subject to subsection (6), on receiving an application for
reconsideration made under section 58(1), the Commissioner must,
within a reasonable time —

       (a) in all cases — affirm, revoke or vary the initial decision,
            direction or order as the Commissioner thinks fit;

       (b) where the application under section 58(1) is in respect of a
            Part 5 direction — substitute the Part 5 direction which is
            the subject of the application with a Part 5 direction of a
            different type which is more appropriate; or

       (c) where the application under section 58(1) is in respect of
            an order following non‑compliance — substitute the order
            following non‑compliance which is the subject of the
            application with an order following non‑compliance of a
            different type which is more appropriate.

 (2) Upon making a determination under subsection (1), the
Commissioner must inform the applicant of the result of the
reconsideration within a reasonable time.

 (3) To avoid doubt, where the initial decision is a decision not to
give a Part 5 direction, a revocation of that decision under
subsection (1)(a) means that the Commissioner must give a Part 5
direction.

 (4) In making a determination under subsection (1), the
Commissioner may take into account any information or event,
whether arising before or after the date of the making of the initial

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
72  NO. 23 OF 2025

decision, direction or order being reconsidered, whether or not the
matter was included as part of the applicant’s reasons for requesting
reconsideration.

 (5) After an applicant has been informed under subsection (2) of the
result of the reconsideration, the applicant may not apply for a further
reconsideration of that result.

 (6) The Commissioner may dismiss any application for
reconsideration made under section 58(1) without reconsidering the
initial decision, direction or order sought to be reconsidered, if the
Commissioner is satisfied that the application —

       (a) is not made in accordance with any requirement in
            section 58(2);

       (b) is trivial, frivolous or vexatious; or

       (c) is not made in good faith.

Online Safety Appeal Panel and Online Safety Appeal
Committees

 60.—(1) There is established an Online Safety Appeal Panel.

 (2) The Minister must appoint the members of the Appeal Panel on
the terms and conditions determined by the Minister.

 (3) The Chairperson of the Appeal Panel must be appointed by the
Minister from among the members of the Appeal Panel.

 (4) For the purpose of determining any appeal under section 64, the
Chairperson of the Appeal Panel may constitute an Online Safety
Appeal Committee comprising 3 or more members of the Appeal
Panel.

 (5) For the proper functioning of any Appeal Committee, the
Chairperson of the Appeal Panel may at any time —

       (a) terminate the nomination of any member of the Appeal
            Committee; and

       (b) reconstitute the Appeal Committee upon the termination of
            the nomination, the expiry of the term of appointment or
            the withdrawal of any member of the Appeal Committee.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               73

 (6) The reconstitution of an Appeal Committee under
subsection (5)(b) does not affect the validity of anything done by
the Appeal Committee under this Act before, on or after the
reconstitution of the Appeal Committee.

Part 5 direction — eligibility to appeal

 61.—(1) The following persons are eligible to appeal under
section 63(1) to the Chairperson of the Appeal Panel against the
Commissioner’s reconsidered decision made under section 59(1) in
relation to a report made under section 23(1):

       (a) the person eligible to make a report under section 22(1) or
            (3) (as the case may be) who made the report (called in this
            section the relevant person), or the victim on whose behalf
            the report was made by a person eligible to do so under
            section 22(2);

       (b) where the relevant person or victim mentioned in
            paragraph (a) is below 18 years of age, the relevant
            person’s or the victim’s parent or guardian;

       (c) the person of a prescribed description mentioned in
            section 22(2)(b) who made the report under section 23(1);

       (d) a person (including a public agency) whom or which the
            Commissioner is satisfied has obtained the written
            authorisation or written consent to appeal on behalf of
            the relevant person or victim mentioned in paragraph (a);

       (e) the recipient of a Part 5 direction that was affirmed, given,
            varied, or substituted for another Part 5 direction, under
            section 59(1);

        (f) a person affected by a Part 5 direction that was affirmed,
            given, varied, or substituted for another Part 5 direction,
            under section 59(1), of such description as may be
            prescribed, and different descriptions of persons may be
            prescribed in relation to each type of Part 5 direction given
            by the Commissioner.

 (2) Where on an appeal made under section 63(1), the Appeal
Committee gives, varies or substitutes one Part 5 direction for another

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
74  NO. 23 OF 2025

under section 64(2), the following persons are eligible to appeal
under section 63(2) against the resulting Part 5 direction:

       (a) the recipient of the resulting Part 5 direction;

       (b) any person affected by the resulting Part 5 direction, of
            such description as may be prescribed, and different
            descriptions of persons may be prescribed in relation to
            each type of resulting Part 5 direction.

Order following non‑compliance — eligibility to appeal

 62. The following persons are eligible to appeal under section 63(1)
to the Chairperson of the Appeal Panel against the Commissioner’s
reconsidered decision made under section 59(1):

       (a) the recipient of an order following non‑compliance that
            was affirmed, given, varied or substituted under
            section 59(1);

       (b) a person affected by any order following non‑compliance
            that was affirmed, given or varied under section 59(1), of
            such description as may be prescribed, and different
            descriptions of persons may be prescribed in relation to
            each type of order following non‑compliance given by the
            Commissioner.

Appeal against Commissioner’s reconsidered decision, etc.

 63.—(1) A person who is dissatisfied with the result of the
Commissioner’s reconsidered decision made under section 59(1),
and is eligible under section 61 or 62 to appeal against it, may appeal
against it.

 (2) Where on an appeal made under subsection (1), the Appeal
Committee gives, varies or substitutes one Part 5 direction for another
under section 64(2), a person dissatisfied with the resulting Part 5
direction, and is eligible under section 61(2) to appeal against it, may
appeal against it.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               75

 (3) The appeal must —

       (a) be submitted to the Chairperson of the Appeal Panel within
            the prescribed period or any longer period as the
            Chairperson may allow;

       (b) be made in the prescribed form and manner; and

       (c) set out the reasons for which the appellant is making the
            appeal.

 (4) Unless the Chairperson of the Appeal Panel decides otherwise
in any particular case, the making of an appeal under this section does
not suspend the effect of the decision, direction or order to which the
appeal relates.

 (5) Subject to subsection (2), there is to be no further appeal made
against the result of an appeal made under subsection (1).

 (6) There is to be no further appeal against the result of an appeal
made under subsection (2).

Determination of appeal against Commissioner’s reconsidered
decision, etc.

 64.—(1) For the purpose of hearing any appeal made under
section 63(1) or (2), the Chairperson of the Appeal Panel is to
constitute, under section 60(4), an Appeal Committee to determine
the appeal, unless the Chairperson of the Appeal Panel determines
that the appeal —

       (a) is not made in accordance with any requirement in
            section 63(3);

       (b) is trivial, frivolous or vexatious; or

       (c) is not made in good faith.

 (2) Subject to subsection (4), an Appeal Committee determining an
appeal made under section 63(1) may —

       (a) remit the matter under appeal to the Commissioner;

       (b) affirm, revoke or vary —

               (i) any decision not to give a Part 5 direction which is
                   the subject of the appeal; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
76  NO. 23 OF 2025

              (ii) any Part 5 direction which is the subject of the
                   appeal;

       (c) substitute a Part 5 direction which is the subject of the
            appeal, with a Part 5 direction of a different type which is
            more appropriate;

       (d) affirm or revoke any order against non‑compliance which
            is the subject of the appeal; or

       (e) take any other step that the Commissioner could have taken
            relating to the subject of the appeal.

 (3) An Appeal Committee determining an appeal made under
section 63(2) may —

       (a) affirm, revoke or vary the Part 5 direction; or

       (b) substitute a Part 5 direction which is the subject of the
            appeal, with a Part 5 direction of a different type which is
            more appropriate.

 (4) An Appeal Committee must not give or vary any order
following non‑compliance.

 (5) After determining an appeal under subsection (2) or (3), the
Appeal Committee must —

       (a) document in writing the reasons for the Appeal
            Committee’s decision in respect of the appeal; and

       (b) inform the Commissioner and the appellant of its decision
            in respect of the appeal.

 (6) In determining an appeal under subsection (2), the Appeal
Committee may —

       (a) take into account any information or event, whether arising
            before or after the date of the making of the reconsidered
            decision under section 59(1) being appealed against,
            whether or not the matter was included as part of the
            applicant’s reasons for appeal; and

       (b) consider any information, document, record or article
            provided or produced pursuant to a request by the Appeal
            Committee under section 65(1)(a) or obtained through any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               77

            exercise of the Commissioner’s powers (whether pursuant
            to a request under section 65(1)(b) or otherwise).

 (7) In determining an appeal under subsection (3), the Appeal
Committee may —

       (a) take into account any information or event, whether arising
            before or after the date of the giving, variation or
            substitution of the Part 5 direction under section 64(2)
            being appealed against, whether or not the matter was
            included as part of the applicant’s reasons for appeal; and

       (b) consider any information, document, record or article
            provided or produced pursuant to a request by the Appeal
            Committee under section 65(1)(a) or obtained through any
            exercise of the Commissioner’s powers (whether pursuant
            to a request under section 65(1)(b) or otherwise).

 (8) To avoid doubt, the revocation of a decision not to give a Part 5
direction under subsection (2)(b)(i) means that the Appeal Committee
must give a Part 5 direction.

 (9) A decision or direction of an Appeal Committee on an appeal
has the same effect, and may be enforced in the same manner, as the
result of the Commissioner’s reconsidered decision made under
section 59(1).

 (10) An Appeal Committee may immediately dismiss any appeal
which the Appeal Committee determines —

       (a) is not made in accordance with any requirement in
            section 63(3);

       (b) is trivial, frivolous or vexatious; or

       (c) is not made in good faith.

Powers of Appeal Committees

 65.—(1) An Appeal Committee may do all or any of the following:

       (a) request any person to provide such information or produce
            such document, record or article in the possession or under
            the control of that person, as the Appeal Committee
            considers relevant for the purposes of the proceedings;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
78  NO. 23 OF 2025

       (b) request the Commissioner to seek and receive any
            information under section 24(2) or exercise any power
            under section 49 or 51, on any matter the Appeal
            Committee considers relevant for the purposes of the
            proceedings.

 (2) The Appeal Committee may inspect, keep or make copies of
any document, record or article provided or produced pursuant to a
request under subsection (1)(a) or obtained by the Commissioner
pursuant to a request under subsection (1)(b).

 (3) Subject to any other provisions of this Act, an Appeal
Committee may regulate its own procedure.

Allowances

 66. Members of the Appeal Committee may receive such
remuneration and allowances as the Minister may determine.

Validity of act or proceeding

 67.—(1) No appeal proceeding before an Appeal Committee, and
no act of the Chairperson of the Appeal Panel or of any member of an
Appeal Committee, is to be nullified only because of —

       (a) in the case of an appeal or proceeding before or act of an
            Appeal Committee — any vacancy in, or defect in the
            constitution of, the Appeal Committee; or

       (b) in every case — any defect in the appointment of the
            Chairperson of the Appeal Panel, or any member of an
            Appeal Committee, as the case may be.

 (2) To avoid doubt, a proceeding mentioned in subsection (1) may
be conducted in an asynchronous manner by exchange of written
correspondence with the parties.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               79

                                    PART 8

                  OFFENCES AND ENFORCEMENT

Notice to attend court

 68.—(1) Where the Commissioner has reasonable grounds for
believing that a person has committed an offence under this Part, the
Commissioner may, in lieu of applying to a court for a summons,
serve upon that person a prescribed notice requiring that person to
attend at the court described, at the hour and on the date specified in
the notice.

 (2) A duplicate of the notice must be prepared by the Commissioner
and, if so required by a court, produced to the court.

 (3) The notice may be served on the person alleged to have
committed the offence in the same manner as the service of a
summons under section 116 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

 (4) On an accused person appearing before a court pursuant to a
notice under subsection (1), the court is to take cognisance of the
offence alleged, and is to proceed as though the accused person were
produced before it pursuant to section 153 of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010.

 (5) If a person upon whom a notice has been served under
subsection (1) fails to appear before a court in person or by
counsel on the date required by that notice, the court may, if satisfied
that the notice was duly served, issue a warrant for the arrest of the
person unless, in the case of an offence which may be compounded,
that person has before that date been permitted to compound the
offence.

 (6) Upon a person arrested pursuant to a warrant issued under
subsection (5) being produced before a court, the court is to proceed
as though the person were produced before it pursuant to section 153
of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

 (7) The Commissioner may, at any time before the date specified in
the notice under subsection (1), cancel the notice.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
80  NO. 23 OF 2025

Offence of providing false information, etc.

 69.—(1) A person shall be guilty of an offence if —

       (a) the person provides a document, or makes a statement
            (whether orally, in writing or any other way) or gives
            information, to the Commissioner, a Deputy
            Commissioner or an Assistant Commissioner, an
            authorised officer, the Appeal Committee, the Appeal
            Panel or any person acting under their direction (called in
            this section a specified person);

       (b) the document, statement or information is false or
            misleading, or the document, statement or information
            omits any matter or thing without which the document,
            statement or information (as the case may be) is
            misleading;

       (c) the person —

               (i) knows, or ought reasonably to know, that the
                   document, statement or information is as described
                   in paragraph (b); or

              (ii) is reckless as to whether the document, statement or
                   information is as described in paragraph (b); and

       (d) the document is provided in, or the statement is made or the
            information is given in, or in connection with —

               (i) any report, application or submission (whether for
                   that person or for another) under this Act; or

              (ii) any question, requirement or investigation by a
                   specified person under this Act or pursuant to the
                   exercise of a specified person’s powers under this
                   Act.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) if the person is an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            12 months or to both; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               81

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $50,000.

 (3) If a person intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any
document which the person has been required by a specified person to
provide pursuant to the exercise of a specified person’s powers under
this Act, the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

       (a) if the person is an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            12 months or to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $50,000.

 (4) Subsection (1) does not apply if the document, statement or
information is not false or misleading in a material particular, or if the
document, statement or information did not omit any matter or thing
without which the document, statement or information (as the case
may be) is misleading in a material particular.

Publicity regarding non‑compliance with directions, etc.

 70.—(1) If the Commissioner is satisfied that the recipient of a
Part 5 direction or an order following non‑compliance (called in this
section the relevant recipient) fails to comply with the direction or
order, the Commissioner may publish a statement to that effect on the
official website of the Commissioner.

 (2) If the statement mentioned in subsection (1) has been published
on the official website and the Commissioner is satisfied that the
relevant recipient has complied with the Part 5 direction or order
following non‑compliance for which the statement was published, the
Commissioner may remove the statement from the official website.

 (3) Statements published under this section are protected by
absolute privilege.

Offences of non‑compliance with directions

 71.—(1) A person shall be guilty of an offence if the person —

       (a) is given any Part 5 direction; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
82  NO. 23 OF 2025

       (b) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with any
            requirement of the Part 5 direction,

whether in Singapore or outside Singapore.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) if the person is an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing
            offence, to a further fine not exceeding $2,000 for every
            day or part of a day during which the offence continues
            after conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $500,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $50,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

Offences of non‑compliance with orders

 72.—(1) A person shall be guilty of an offence if the person —

       (a) is given an access blocking order; and

       (b) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with any
            requirement of the access blocking order,

whether in Singapore or outside Singapore.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $20,000
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (3) A person shall be guilty of an offence if the person —

       (a) is given an app removal order; and

       (b) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with any
            requirement of the app removal order,

whether in Singapore or outside Singapore.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               83

 (4) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (3) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $500,000 and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $50,000
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

Defences

 73.—(1) It is not a defence to a charge for an offence under
section 69, 71 or 72 that —

       (a) the person is subject to a duty of confidentiality or privacy
            imposed by any rule of law or a duty imposed by any
            contract or any rule of professional conduct, that prevents
            or restricts the person from complying with a requirement
            of the relevant direction or order following
            non‑compliance, as the case may be; or

       (b) the person has applied for a reconsideration of, or has
            appealed against, the relevant direction or order following
            non‑compliance.

 (2) It is not a defence to a charge for an offence under section 49(5)
or 52(3) that the person is subject to a duty of confidentiality or
privacy imposed by any rule of law or a duty imposed by any contract
or any rule of professional conduct, that prevents or restricts the
person from complying with a written notice under section 49 or 52.

 (3) Without limiting the meaning of “reasonable excuse”, it is a
defence to a charge for an offence under Part 6 or this Part if the
accused proves, on a balance of probabilities, that —

       (a) it was not reasonably practicable to do more than what was
            in fact done to comply with the relevant direction or order
            following non‑compliance or written notice under
            section 49, as the case may be; or

       (b) there was no better practicable means than what was in fact
            used.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
84  NO. 23 OF 2025

Offences by corporations

 74.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under section 49(5) or
69(1) or (3), a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

              (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
                   of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                   the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the corporation; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                   type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                   take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                   commission of that offence,

       (b) shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation,
            and shall be liable on conviction to be punished
            accordingly.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               85

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
         meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
         Act 2005;

      “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
         partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the corporation, and includes —

              (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

              (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
                   members, any of those members as if the member
                   were a director of the corporation;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 75.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
86  NO. 23 OF 2025

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership (as the
case may be) had that state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under section 49(5) or 69(1) or (3), a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                   position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                   case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                   offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the unincorporated
                   association or partnership; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the unincorporated association or
                   partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                   be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                   reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                   that offence,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               87

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
         a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
         member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
         and includes —

              (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
                   president, secretary or member of a committee of the
                   unincorporated association; and

              (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

      “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
88  NO. 23 OF 2025

Online harmful activity remedial initiative

 76.—(1) In deciding whether to institute proceedings against a
person for an offence under this Act relating to any failure to comply
with any requirement of a Part 5 direction, the Public Prosecutor may
consider any remedial action of the person.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Commissioner may —

       (a) specify either generally or in a particular case any remedial
            action that —

               (i) relates to online safety;

              (ii) facilitates remedy of the harm caused;

             (iii) facilitates the rehabilitation of the person; or

             (iv) allows contribution to society;

       (b) determine a person’s suitability for a remedial action; and

       (c) certify whether a person has satisfactorily completed a
            remedial action.

Composition of offences

 77.—(1) The Commissioner or any other person authorised in
writing by the Commissioner, may compound any offence under this
Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
not exceeding one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
prescribed for the offence.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings may
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

Jurisdiction of courts

 78.—(1) Where an offence under this Act is committed by a person
outside Singapore, the person may be dealt with in respect of that
offence as if it had been committed wholly within Singapore.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               89

 (2) Despite the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, a District Court or a
Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act
and has power to impose the full punishment for any such offence.

                                    PART 9

                 GENERAL AND MISCELLANEOUS

Service of documents

 79.—(1) The Minister may make regulations to make provision
for —

       (a) the manner of service of any notice, direction, order or
            other document permitted or required to be given under
            this Act to be served on a person or a class of persons
            (called in this section a specified document);

       (b) the circumstances under which and time at which service
            of a specified document takes effect, including the
            following:

               (i) where the specified document was served on a
                   person without that person’s prior written consent to
                   being served in that way;

              (ii) where a specified document is returned undelivered;
                   and

       (c) the exceptions, modifications or adaptations to the
            application of any provision of or under this Act if the
            Commissioner is satisfied that the person to be served did
            not have adequate notice of the service of a specified
            document.

 (2) Regulations made under subsection (1) may make different
provisions for —

       (a) different persons or documents;

       (b) different classes of persons or documents; or

       (c) different circumstances.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
90  NO. 23 OF 2025

 (3) An affidavit or oral evidence of the Commissioner or an
authorised officer as to the service of any notice, direction, order or
other document to be served under this Act is admissible as prima
facie proof of service of the document.

 (4) In this section, “document” excludes any document to be served
in proceedings in court.

Immunity

 80.—(1) No person or officer, employee or agent of the person is to
incur any civil or criminal liability under any written law or rule of
law, or be liable for any breach of confidence or to any disciplinary
action by a professional body, for doing or omitting to do any act, if
the act is done or omitted to be done in good faith and with reasonable
care and for the purpose of complying with or giving effect to —

       (a) any Part 5 direction or order following non‑compliance
            given to the person; or

       (b) any written notice under section 49, 51 or 52 given to the
            person.

 (2) No liability shall lie against the Commissioner, a Deputy
Commissioner or an Assistant Commissioner, an authorised officer,
the Secretary to an Appeal Committee or the Appeal Panel or a
member of an Appeal Committee or the Appeal Panel or any person
acting under their direction for anything done or intended to be done
in good faith and with reasonable care in the execution or purported
execution of this Act.

 (3) For the purpose of determining whether a person or
appointment holder mentioned in subsection (1) or (2) has acted in
good faith and with reasonable care in respect of anything done or
omitted to be done by the person or appointment holder, a court has to
consider such matters and circumstances as may be prescribed by the
Minister and different matters and circumstances may be prescribed
for different classes of persons or appointment holders.

General exemption for Parts 1 to 9

 81. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any online
activity or online harmful activity, or class of online activities or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               91

online harmful activities, from all or any provision of Parts 1 to 9,
either generally or in a particular case and subject to any conditions
that the Minister may impose.

Regulations for Parts 1 to 9

 82.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for carrying out or
giving effect to Parts 1 to 9, and for any matter that is required to be
prescribed under those Parts.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the regulations may —

       (a) provide for anything that may be prescribed under Parts 1
            to 9;

       (b) provide for the composition of the Appeal Panel;

       (c) provide for the constitution and procedure for the conduct
            of any proceedings by an Appeal Committee, including for
            the conduct of any meeting or hearing using remote
            communication technology;

       (d) provide for fees payable in respect of any report,
            application or appeal made, or for any other purpose,
            under Parts 1 to 9;

       (e) provide for such saving, transitional and other
            consequential provisions as the Minister considers
            necessary or expedient.

 (3) The powers conferred by this section do not extend to any
matter for which Rules of Court or Family Justice Rules may be made
under section 104 or 105, respectively.

                                   PART 10

            ONLINE HARMFUL ACTIVITIES — TORTS

Tort of intimate image abuse

 83.—(1) A person (X) must not make any communication that
constitutes intimate image abuse.

 (2) If X contravenes subsection (1), the victim of the intimate image
abuse may bring civil proceedings in a court against X.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
92  NO. 23 OF 2025

 (3) In any proceedings mentioned in subsection (2), it is a defence
for X to prove —

       (a) that X’s conduct was reasonable;

       (b) that X had reasonable grounds to believe that the victim
            consented to the communication of the intimate image or
            recording; or

       (c) that X did not know and had no reason to suspect that the
            material that X had communicated was an intimate image
            or recording.

 (4) In this section —

      “intimate image or recording” has the meaning given by
         section 13(2);

      “victim”, in relation to intimate image abuse, means the victim
         mentioned in section 13(1).

Tort of image‑based child abuse

 84.—(1) A person (X) must not make any communication that
constitutes image‑based child abuse.

 (2) If X contravenes subsection (1), the victim of the image‑based
child abuse, who was below 16 years of age at the time the victim was
depicted in the child abuse image or recording in question, may bring
civil proceedings in a court against X.

 (3) In any proceedings mentioned in subsection (2), it is a defence
for X to prove —

       (a) that X’s conduct was reasonable; or

       (b) that X did not know and had no reason to suspect that the
            material that X had communicated was a child abuse image
            or recording.

 (4) In this section —

      “child abuse image or recording” has the meaning given by
         section 14(2);

      “victim”, in relation to image‑based child abuse, means the
         victim mentioned in section 14(1).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               93

Tort of online impersonation

 85.—(1) A person (X) must not conduct any online activity that
constitutes online impersonation if the online activity is likely to
cause a victim harassment, alarm, distress or humiliation.

 (2) If X contravenes subsection (1), the victim of the online
impersonation may bring civil proceedings in a court against X.

 (3) In any proceedings mentioned in subsection (2), it is a defence
for X to prove —

       (a) that X’s conduct was reasonable; or

       (b) that X had reasonable grounds to believe that the victim
            consented to the online impersonation.

 (4) In this section, “victim”, in relation to online impersonation,
means the victim mentioned in section 15.

Tort of inauthentic material abuse

 86.—(1) A person (X) must not make any communication that
constitutes inauthentic material abuse by communicating material
that X knew or had reasonable grounds to believe was inauthentic
material of a victim.

 (2) If X contravenes subsection (1), the victim of the inauthentic
material abuse may bring civil proceedings in a court against X.

 (3) In any proceedings mentioned in subsection (2), it is a defence
for X to prove —

       (a) that X’s conduct was reasonable; or

       (b) that X had reasonable grounds to believe that the victim
            consented to the communication of the inauthentic
            material.

 (4) In this section —

      “inauthentic material” has the meaning given by section 16(2);

      “victim”, in relation to inauthentic material abuse, means the
         victim mentioned in section 16(1).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
94  NO. 23 OF 2025

Tort of online instigation of disproportionate harm

 87.—(1) A person (X) must not communicate online material that
contains or consists of a statement where the following requirements
are met:

       (a) the statement tends to instigate the public or a section of
            the public to act or omit to act in response to an alleged
            speech or conduct of a person (called in this section the
            victim) or a person associated with the victim (called in
            this section the victim’s associate);

       (b) the act or omission that the statement tends to instigate
            would cause harm to the victim;

       (c) the act or omission or the harm mentioned in
            paragraph (b) is disproportionate to —

               (i) where the statement tends to instigate a response to
                   an alleged speech or conduct of the victim — the
                   wrongfulness (if any) of the alleged speech or
                   conduct, or of any relevant actual speech or
                   conduct, of the victim; or

              (ii) where the statement tends to instigate a response to
                   an alleged speech or conduct of the victim’s
                   associate —

                     (A) the wrongfulness (if any) of the alleged speech
                          or conduct, or of any relevant actual speech or
                          conduct, of the victim’s associate; and

                     (B) the extent and nature of the association (if any)
                          between the victim and the victim’s associate’s
                          alleged or actual speech or conduct (as the
                          case may be).

                                          Illustration

      A is the father of B. B acted in a highly offensive manner. C makes a statement
that tends to instigate the public to act in a manner that harms A in response to B’s
conduct. In assessing the extent and nature of the association (if any) between the
victim and the victim’s associate’s conduct (as mentioned in
subsection (1)(c)(ii)(B)), so as to determine whether the requirement of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               95

disproportionality in subsection (1)(c) is met, the court may consider whether A
taught B to act or not to act in that way.

 (2) If X contravenes subsection (1), the victim may bring civil
proceedings in a court against X.

 (3) In assessing whether the requirement of disproportionality in
subsection (1)(c) is satisfied, the court may have regard to all or any
of the following factors:

       (a) the nature of the act or omission that the statement tends to
            instigate, including whether the act or omission is or is
            likely to constitute a criminal offence under any written
            law;

       (b) the nature of the harm mentioned in subsection (1)(b),
            including the severity of that harm;

       (c) whether the victim or the victim’s associate did in fact
            engage in the alleged speech or conduct;

       (d) whether the alleged speech or conduct, or any relevant
            actual speech or conduct of the victim or the victim’s
            associate, would be a reasonable expression of an opinion
            on a matter of public interest or public controversy;

       (e) any other relevant factor.

 (4) In any civil proceedings under subsection (2), X is not liable if X
proves that —

       (a) the statement did not in fact cause the loss and damage
            suffered by the victim;

       (b) it was not reasonably foreseeable that the statement would
            instigate the act or omission which caused the loss and
            damage suffered by the victim; or

       (c) X had acted reasonably in the circumstances.

 (5) In considering whether X had acted reasonably in the
circumstances, the court may have regard to all or any of the
following factors:

       (a) whether X had explored alternative means that may be
            more proportionate in addressing the wrongfulness (if any)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
96  NO. 23 OF 2025

            of the alleged speech or conduct of the victim or the
            victim’s associate;

       (b) where X made allegations regarding the alleged speech or
            conduct of the victim or the victim’s associate, whether X
            had any reasonable basis for doing so and had provided
            proper context;

       (c) whether X had acted in good faith;

       (d) any other relevant factor.

 (6) The following apply for the purposes of ascertaining whether
online material mentioned in subsection (1) contains or consists of a
statement which bears a particular meaning:

       (a) the statement is to be ascertained from a reasonable
            interpretation of the online material whether wholly or in
            part, and whether on its own or in the context in which it
            appears;

       (b) there can be more than one reasonable interpretation.

 (7) This section does not apply where the act or omission that the
statement tends to instigate is any of the following:

       (a) voting for any candidate in an election for the purpose of
            electing the President or a Member of Parliament;

       (b) conducting or otherwise participating in or attending a
            political activity;

       (c) communicating a statement calling for the removal or
            suspension of a political office holder or Member of
            Parliament from his or her office;

       (d) communicating a statement to a political office holder, a
            Member of Parliament or a public body on a matter of
            public interest or public controversy.

 (8) In this section —

      “candidate” has the meaning given by the Presidential
         Elections Act 1991 or the Parliamentary Elections
         Act 1954, as the case may be;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               97

“political activity” includes —

        (a) any activity that is directed to influence, or seek to
             influence, the outcome of an election to the office of
             the President, a general election of Members of
             Parliament, a by‑election of a Member of
             Parliament, or a referendum;

        (b) any activity that is directed towards promoting the
             interests of a political party or other group of persons
             organised in Singapore for a political object; and

        (c) any activity that is directed to bring about, or seek to
             bring about, changes of the law in the whole or a part
             of Singapore, or to otherwise influence, or seek to
             influence, the legislative process or outcome in
             Singapore;

“political office holder” means the holder of the office of —

        (a) the President;

        (b) the Prime Minister;

        (c) a Deputy Prime Minister;

        (d) a Minister, Senior Minister or Co‑ordinating
             Minister;

        (e) a Senior Minister of State or Minister of State;

        (f) a Senior Parliamentary Secretary or Parliamentary
             Secretary;

        (g) the Speaker of Parliament or a Deputy Speaker of
             Parliament;

        (h) a Mayor;

        (i) a Political Secretary; or

        (j) the Leader of the House;

“public body” means —

        (a) the Government, including any ministry, department,
             agency or Organ of State;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
98  NO. 23 OF 2025

              (b) a prescribed statutory body; and

              (c) any prescribed board, prescribed commission,
                   prescribed committee or similar prescribed body,
                   whether corporate or unincorporate.

Tort of incitement of violence

 88.—(1) A person (X) must not make any communication that
constitutes incitement of violence.

 (2) If X contravenes subsection (1), a victim of incitement of
violence may bring civil proceedings in a court against X.

 (3) In any proceedings mentioned in subsection (2), it is a defence
for X to prove that X’s conduct was reasonable.

 (4) In this section, each member of the group against which the
unlawful force or unlawful violence is incited or likely to be incited is
a victim.

                                    PART 11
           ADMINISTRATORS — DUTIES AND TORTS
Application of this Part
 89.—(1) This Part applies only to the following online harmful
activities (each called in this Part an applicable online harmful
activity), other than an activity the definition of which in Part 3 has
not been brought into operation:
       (a) online harassment;
       (b) doxxing;
       (c) online stalking;
       (d) intimate image abuse;
       (e) image‑based child abuse;
        (f) online impersonation;
       (g) inauthentic material abuse;
       (h) incitement of violence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               99

 (2) In this Part —

       (a) a reference to a victim in relation to an applicable online
            harmful activity mentioned in subsection (1)(a) to (g) is a
            reference to the victim mentioned in the definition of that
            applicable online harmful activity in Part 3; and

       (b) a reference to a victim in relation to an applicable online
            harmful activity mentioned in subsection (1)(h) is a
            reference to each member of the group against which the
            unlawful force or unlawful violence is incited or likely to
            be incited.

Tort of facilitating or permitting applicable online harmful
activity

 90.—(1) A person must not develop and maintain, or otherwise or
administer an online location —

       (a) in a manner that facilitates or permits any applicable online
            harmful activity to be conducted at that location; and

       (b) intending for any applicable online harmful activity to be
            conducted or with the knowledge that any applicable
            online harmful activity is likely to be conducted, at that
            location.

 (2) Whether a person has contravened subsection (1) is to be
determined having regard to all or any of the following factors:

       (a) the purpose for which the online location is administered or
            used;

       (b) the profile of users who regularly access or are members or
            participants of the online location;

       (c) the nature and content of the materials communicated at
            the online location;

       (d) the moderation policies and practices applied at the online
            location;

       (e) the extent to which any applicable online harmful activity
            is being conducted or is prevalent at the online location;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
100  NO. 23 OF 2025

        (f) any other relevant factor.

                                         Illustrations

      (a) X administers a website inviting users to make harassing posts about a
person. X has facilitated the conduct of online harassment.

      (b) X administers a chat group inviting users to share intimate images of
women. Although X requires users to confirm that the images are shared with
consent, the profile of the users and the nature of the materials communicated in
this group is such that X knows that it is likely that one or more persons will share
these images without the consent of the women. X has facilitated the conduct of
intimate image abuse in the chat group with the knowledge that such activity is
likely to be conducted.

      (c) X administers a website for users to post job advertisements. Many users
begin posting advertisements offering the sale of intimate images taken without
consent. X is aware of those advertisements and the nature of what they offer. Even
though intimate image abuse is prevalent on X’s website, X takes no steps to
moderate the website. X has permitted the conduct of intimate image abuse at the
website with the knowledge that such activity is likely to be conducted.

      (d) As in illustration (c), but X promptly takes down any offending
advertisement within an hour, bans the accounts of those who post such
advertisements, and issues warnings to users against posting such advertisements.
X has not facilitated or permitted the conduct of intimate image abuse at the
website.

 (3) If a person contravenes subsection (1) (called in this section the
respondent), a victim of any applicable online harmful activity
conducted at the online location mentioned in that subsection may
bring civil proceedings in a court against the respondent.

 (4) In any civil proceedings mentioned in subsection (3), it is a
defence for the respondent to prove that the respondent’s conduct was
reasonable in the circumstances.

Tort of failing to respond reasonably to online harm notice

 91.—(1) A victim of an applicable online harmful activity may send
an administrator of an online location a written notice that an
applicable online harmful activity in relation to the victim has
occurred at that location (called in this section an online harm notice).

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               101

 (2) An online harm notice mentioned in subsection (1) must —

       (a) identify the applicable online harmful activity in a way that
            is sufficient to enable the administrator to address that
            activity; and

       (b) be sent in such manner and form, and contain such
            particulars, as may be prescribed.

 (3) Where an administrator is sent an online harm notice in
accordance with subsections (1) and (2), the administrator has a duty
to the victim to do the following within a reasonable time:

       (a) take reasonable care to assess whether the applicable
            online harmful activity identified in the notice has
            occurred;

       (b) if so, take reasonable steps to address that applicable online
            harmful activity.

 (4) In determining what steps are reasonable for an administrator to
take to address the applicable online harmful activity under
subsection (3), the court is to have regard to the following factors
where relevant:

       (a) the circumstances in which the applicable online harmful
            activity identified in the online harm notice was conducted;

       (b) the extent to which the applicable online harmful activity
            identified in the online harm notice is likely to persist or
            continue at the online location;

       (c) the past conduct of the person who conducted the
            applicable online harmful activity;

       (d) the impact on any person who may be affected by the steps
            taken to address the applicable online harmful activity;

       (e) any other relevant factor.

                                         Illustrations

      (a) X is the administrator of a messaging group. Y posts an intimate image of
Z on this messaging group without Z’s consent. Z sends X an online harm notice of
the intimate image abuse that has occurred in relation to Z. X promptly removes

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
102  NO. 23 OF 2025

Y’s post from the messaging group. X has taken reasonable steps to address the
intimate image abuse identified in Z’s online harm notice.

      (b) X is the administrator of an online forum. Y repeatedly makes harassing
posts of Z on the online forum. Z sends X an online harm notice of the online
harassment that has occurred in relation to Z. X promptly suspends Y’s online
account on this forum and warns Y against repeating Y’s actions. X has taken
reasonable steps to address the online harassment identified in Z’s online harm
notice.

      (c) X is the administrator of an online forum. Y creates a thread on the online
forum to harass Z, and multiple users make harassing posts of Z on the thread. Z
sends X an online harm notice of the online harassment that has occurred in
relation to Z. X promptly removes the thread created by Y from the online forum. X
has taken reasonable steps to address the online harassment identified in Z’s online
harm notice.

 (5) If an administrator contravenes subsection (3), a person who —

       (a) sent the online harm notice in accordance with
            subsections (1) and (2); and

       (b) is a victim of the applicable online harmful activity
            identified in the notice,

may bring civil proceedings in a court against the administrator
(called in this section the respondent).

 (6) In any civil proceedings mentioned in subsection (5), it is
presumed until the contrary is proved that the respondent failed to
take the reasonable steps mentioned in subsection (3)(b), if the victim
proves that —

       (a) an online harm notice was sent to the respondent in
            accordance with subsections (1) and (2);

       (b) the applicable online harmful activity identified in the
            online harm notice occurred at the online location
            administered by the respondent;

       (c) the applicable online harmful activity involved the
            communication of online material; and

       (d) after a reasonable period of time had passed since the
            online harm notice was sent, that online material was not

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               103

            removed from the online location administered by the
            respondent.

 (7) In any civil proceedings mentioned in subsection (5), it is a
defence for the respondent to prove that, through no fault of the
respondent, the respondent did not receive the online harm notice that
was sent in accordance with subsections (1) and (2).

Tort of sending frivolous or false online harm notices to
administrators

 92. An administrator, X, has a right of action in civil proceedings
against Z if Z sent an online harm notice to X under section 91 and the
online harm notice —

       (a) is frivolous; or

       (b) is false in a material way and which Z knew to be false.

                                   PART 12
   ONLINE SERVICE PROVIDERS — DUTIES AND TORTS
Application of this Part
 93.—(1) This Part applies only to the following online harmful
activities (each called in this Part an applicable online harmful
activity), other than an activity the definition of which in Part 3 has
not been brought into operation:

       (a) online harassment;
       (b) doxxing;
       (c) online stalking;
       (d) intimate image abuse;
       (e) image‑based child abuse;
        (f) online impersonation;
       (g) inauthentic material abuse;
       (h) incitement of violence.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
104  NO. 23 OF 2025

 (2) In this Part —

       (a) a reference to a victim in relation to an applicable online
            harmful activity mentioned in subsection (1)(a) to (g) is a
            reference to the victim mentioned in the definition of that
            applicable online harmful activity in Part 3; and

       (b) a reference to a victim in relation to an applicable online
            harmful activity mentioned in subsection (1)(h) is a
            reference to each member of the group against which the
            unlawful force or unlawful violence is incited or likely to
            be incited.

Tort of failing to respond reasonably to online harm notice

 94.—(1) A victim of an applicable online harmful activity may send
an online service provider a written notice that an applicable online
harmful activity in relation to the victim has occurred by means of the
online service (called in this section an online harm notice).

 (2) An online harm notice mentioned in subsection (1) must —

       (a) identify the applicable online harmful activity in a way that
            is sufficient to enable the online service provider to address
            that activity; and

       (b) be sent in such manner and form, and contain such
            particulars, as may be prescribed.

 (3) Where an online service provider is sent an online harm notice
in accordance with subsections (1) and (2), the online service
provider has a duty to the victim to do the following within a
reasonable time:

       (a) take reasonable care in assessing whether the applicable
            online harmful activity identified in the notice has
            occurred;

       (b) if so, take reasonable steps to address that applicable online
            harmful activity.

 (4) In determining what steps are reasonable for an online service
provider to take to address the applicable online harmful activity

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               105

under subsection (3), the court is to have regard to the following
factors:

       (a) the circumstances in which the applicable online harmful
            activity identified in the online harm notice was conducted;

       (b) the extent to which the applicable online harmful activity
            identified in the online harm notice is likely to persist or
            continue by means of the online service;

       (c) the past conduct of the person who conducted the
            applicable online harmful activity identified in the online
            harm notice;

       (d) the impact on any person who may be affected by the steps
            taken to address the applicable online harmful activity;

       (e) any other consideration or factor that may be prescribed.

                                         Illustrations

      (a) Z provides a social media service. X posts an intimate image of Y using
this service without Y’s consent. Y sends Z an online harm notice of the intimate
image abuse that has occurred in relation to Y. Z promptly disables access by
end‑users on its service to X’s post. Z has taken reasonable steps to address the
intimate image abuse identified in Y’s online harm notice.

      (b) Z provides a social media service. X repeatedly makes harassing posts of
Y using this service. Y sends Z an online harm notice of the online harassment that
has occurred in relation to Y. Z promptly suspends X’s online account on the
service and warns X against repeating X’s actions. Z has taken reasonable steps to
address the online harassment identified in Y’s online harm notice.

      (c) Z provides a social media service. X creates a page on this service to
harass Y, and multiple users make harassing posts of Y on this page. Y sends Z an
online harm notice of the online harassment that has occurred in relation to Y. Z
promptly disables access by end‑users on its service to this page created by X. Z
has taken reasonable steps to address the online harassment identified in Y’s online
harm notice.

 (5) If an online service provider contravenes subsection (3), a
person who —

       (a) sent the online harm notice in accordance with
            subsections (1) and (2); and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
106  NO. 23 OF 2025

       (b) is a victim of the applicable online harmful activity
            identified in the notice,

may bring civil proceedings in a court against the online service
provider (called in this section the respondent).

 (6) In any civil proceedings mentioned in subsection (5), it is
presumed until the contrary is proved that the respondent failed to
take the reasonable steps mentioned in subsection (3)(b), if the victim
proves that —

       (a) an online harm notice was sent to the respondent in
            accordance with subsections (1) and (2);

       (b) the applicable online harmful activity identified in the
            online harm notice has occurred by means of the
            respondent’s online service;

       (c) the applicable online harmful activity involved the
            communication of online material; and

       (d) after a reasonable period of time had passed since the
            online harm notice was sent, that online material remained
            accessible to end‑users of the online service.

 (7) In any civil proceedings mentioned in subsection (5), it is a
defence for the respondent to prove that, through no fault of the
respondent, the respondent did not receive the online harm notice that
was sent in accordance with subsections (1) and (2).

 (8) Where the respondent is a prescribed online service provider —

       (a) the reasonable time mentioned in subsection (3) is to be
            read as the prescribed period of time; and

       (b) the respondent is in contravention of the respondent’s duty
            in subsection (3) if the respondent fails to take such steps
            within the prescribed period of time, unless the respondent
            can show that it was not reasonable for the respondent to do
            so.

 (9) Where the respondent has responded to an online harm notice in
accordance with requirements that may be prescribed as applicable to
the respondent, the respondent is deemed to have fulfilled the
respondent’s duty under subsection (3).

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               107

 (10) To avoid doubt, the fact that the respondent did not respond to
an online harm notice in accordance with the prescribed requirements
mentioned in subsection (9) does not, without more, lead to the
conclusion that the respondent had failed to fulfil the respondent’s
duty under subsection (3).

Tort of sending frivolous or false online harm notices to online
service providers

 95. An online service provider, X, has a right of action in civil
proceedings against Z if Z sent an online harm notice to X under
section 94 and the online harm notice —

       (a) is frivolous; or

       (b) is false in a material way and which Z knew to be false.

                                   PART 13

                      DAMAGES AND REMEDIES

Damages in proceedings under Part 10, 11 or 12

 96.—(1) Subject to subsections (2), (3), (4) and (5), if any person is
found liable in any civil proceedings brought under Part 10, 11 or 12,
the court may award any damages that the court may, having regard to
all the circumstances of the case, think just and equitable.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the court may make an order or
award for —

       (a) damages for loss of future earnings and loss of earning
            capacity in proceedings brought under —

               (i) Part 10, in relation to the claims relating to the type
                   or description of torts specified in regulations; or

              (ii) Part 11 or 12, in relation to the claims relating to the
                   type or description of online harmful activities
                   specified in regulations; or

       (b) an account of profits (even if no loss or harm is proved) in
            proceedings brought under —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
108  NO. 23 OF 2025

               (i) Part 10 in relation to the claims relating to the type or
                   description of torts specified in regulations; or

              (ii) Part 11 or 12 in relation to the claims relating to the
                   type or description of online harmful activities
                   specified in regulations.

 (3) The damages that a court may award under subsection (1) in
proceedings brought under Part 10, 11 or 12 with respect to a claim or
class of claims by any person or class of persons is subject to the
maximum limits that may be specified and determined in accordance
with regulations in relation to a specified type or description of the
tort or online harmful activity related to the tort (as the case may be)
specified in those regulations.

 (4) The court is to award under subsection (1) a minimum amount
of damages with respect to a claim or class of claims brought in
proceedings under Part 10, 11 or 12 for a specified type or description
of the tort or online harmful activity related to the tort (as the case
may be) specified in regulations.

Damages for incitement of violence

 97.—(1) Subject to subsections (2), (3) and (4), in any civil
proceedings brought under Part 10, 11 or 12 in relation to the online
harmful activity of incitement of violence, the court may award
damages to the members of the group that is the subject of those
proceedings.

 (2) The court may determine the amount of the damages mentioned
in subsection (1), as the court thinks just and equitable, having regard
to all the circumstances, including the loss or harm suffered by
members of the group or suffered by the group as a whole.

 (3) The damages mentioned in subsection (1) are to be allocated
and distributed in accordance with the procedures that may be
prescribed in Rules of Court made under section 104.

 (4) Where it is not possible or practicable to allocate or distribute
all or any part of the damages awarded under this section, the court
may order that those damages be applied to purposes and activities
that will fulfil the objectives of the group or otherwise for its benefit.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               109

Enhanced damages under Part 10 or section 90

 98.—(1) Subject to subsection (4), in any proceedings brought by a
victim of a tort under Part 10, the court may, if it thinks just and
equitable in the circumstances to do so, award enhanced damages to
the victim where —

       (a) the victim made a reasonable written request to the
            respondent the effect of which is to ask the respondent to
            address the online harmful activity that is the subject of the
            claim; and

       (b) the respondent failed, without reasonable excuse, to
            address the online harmful activity within a reasonable
            time.

 (2) Subject to subsection (4), in any proceedings brought by a
victim of an online harmful activity for a claim under section 90(3),
the court may, if it thinks just and equitable in the circumstances to do
so, award the victim enhanced damages against the respondent if —

       (a) the victim had made a reasonable written request to the
            respondent the effect of which is to ask the respondent to
            address the online harmful activity at the online location
            that is the subject of the claim; and

       (b) the respondent failed, without reasonable excuse, to
            address the online harmful activity within a reasonable
            time.

 (3) The award of enhanced damages that a court may award under
subsection (1) or (2) —

       (a) is in addition to any general and special damages that may
            be awarded;

       (b) is distinct from punitive damages or aggravated damages,
            and the principles governing the award of those damages
            need not apply to an award of enhanced damages; and

       (c) may in the court’s discretion be awarded in addition to or in
            lieu of any punitive or aggravated damages.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
110  NO. 23 OF 2025

 (4) The Minister may make regulations —

       (a) to prescribe the maximum limits of enhanced damages that
            a court may award under subsection (1) or (2), as the case
            may be; and

       (b) to clarify the application of the Limitation Act 1959 to an
            action for a claim for enhanced damages under this Act,
            including prescribing a period of limitation for that action.

Reliefs and remedies against respondents in proceedings under
Part 10, 11 or 12

 99.—(1) Without affecting sections 96, 97 and 98, in any
proceedings brought under Part 10, 11 or 12, the court may grant
any relief or remedy against the respondent that the court may, having
regard to all the circumstances of the case, think just and equitable,
including but not limited to the orders set out in subsections (2), (3)
and (4).

 (2) The court may order the respondent in any civil proceedings
brought under section 83(2), 84(2), 85(2), 86(2), 87(2) or 88(2) to do
all or any combination of the following:

       (a) to remove any specified material or any online material
            similar to it such that the material cannot be accessed by
            persons in Singapore;

       (b) to stop storing, posting, providing or transmitting any
            specified material or any online material similar to it such
            that the material cannot be accessed by persons in
            Singapore;

       (c) to suspend, remove, delete or terminate a specified online
            location such that the online location cannot be accessed by
            persons in Singapore;

       (d) to stop conducting any online activity in relation to the
            victim as may be specified in the order.

 (3) The court may order the respondent in any civil proceedings
brought under section 90(3) and 91(5) to do all or any combination of
the following:

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               111

       (a) to remove any specified material or any online material
            similar to it such that the material cannot be accessed by
            persons in Singapore;

       (b) to suspend, remove, delete or terminate a specified online
            location such that the online location cannot be accessed by
            persons in Singapore;

       (c) to disallow or restrict a specified Singapore account from
            accessing a specified online location;

       (d) to refrain from developing and maintaining, or otherwise
            administering an online location (accessible by end‑users
            in Singapore) that is similar to the specified online location
            mentioned in paragraph (b).

 (4) The court may order the respondent in any civil proceedings
brought under section 94(5) to do all or any combination of the
following:

       (a) to disable access by end‑users in Singapore to the specified
            material or any online material identical to it that is stored,
            posted, provided or transmitted on or through the online
            service provider’s online service;

       (b) to disable access by end‑users in Singapore to a specified
            online location on the online service provider’s online
            service;

       (c) to disallow interaction between a specified online account
            on the online service provider’s online service from
            interacting with end‑users in Singapore or to restrict
            such interactions;

       (d) to disallow a specified Singapore account from accessing a
            specified online location on the online service provider’s
            online service or to restrict such access;

       (e) to disallow a specified person from establishing or
            maintaining an online account on the online service
            provider’s online service that can interact with end‑users
            in Singapore.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
112  NO. 23 OF 2025

 (5) The court may in any civil proceedings brought under section 92
or 95 —

       (a) declare that the online harm notice that is the subject of the
            proceedings brought under section 92 or 95 is frivolous or
            false in a material way; and

       (b) order the respondent to stop sending any further online
            harm notice that is the subject of those proceedings.

 (6) To avoid doubt —

       (a) subsection (2), (3), (4) or (5) does not prevent the court
            from making any variation of the orders mentioned in that
            subsection or any other order that the court may make
            under any written law; and

       (b) in this section, material that is similar to specified material
            includes material that is identical to the specified material.

Orders against third parties in proceedings under Part 10, 11
or 12

 100.—(1) In any proceedings brought under Part 10, 11 or 12 —

       (a) that relate to online harmful activity involving the
            communication of online material (called in this section
            the offending material); and

       (b) where it is likely that the offending material will continue
            to be communicated or any online material that is similar to
            the offending material (called in this section the similar
            material) will be likely to be communicated,

the court may, if it is just and equitable in the circumstances to do so,
make an order specified in subsection (2) to the individuals or entities
specified in that subsection.

 (2) The orders mentioned in subsection (1) are —

       (a) an order to an individual or entity that is likely to
            communicate (or continue to communicate) the
            offending material or similar material, to —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               113

               (i) stop communicating, by a specified time, the
                   offending material or similar material; or

              (ii) not communicate the offending material or similar
                   material;

       (b) an order to an administrator of an online location, at which
            the communication of the offending material is likely to
            occur, to stop the offending material or any online material
            identical to the offending material from being
            communicated in Singapore at the online location within
            a specified time; or

       (c) an order to the online service provider, of the online service
            at which the communication of the offending material is
            likely to occur, to disable access by end‑users in Singapore,
            within a specified time, to —

               (i) the offending material; or

              (ii) in the case of a prescribed online service provider,
                   the offending material or any online material
                   identical to the offending material.

 (3) To avoid doubt, material that is similar to the offending material
includes material that is identical to the offending material.

                                   PART 14

              JURISDICTIONAL, PROCEDURAL AND
                     MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS

Tort treated as taking place in Singapore

 101. For the purposes of any proceedings for a tort under Part 10, 11
or 12, that tort is to be treated as having taken place in Singapore if
any act or omission or any part of an act or omission that is an element
of the tort —

       (a) was initiated or occurred in or from Singapore;

       (b) is perceived by one or more persons in Singapore; or

       (c) caused damage, loss or harm suffered in Singapore.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
114  NO. 23 OF 2025

Limits to exclusion of liability

 102.—(1) This Act has effect despite any provision or term to the
contrary in any contract, agreement or notice and any provision or
term in a contract, agreement or notice is void if and to the extent
that —

       (a) it is inconsistent with Part 11 or 12;

       (b) it purports to exclude or limit the jurisdiction of the courts
            of Singapore for a claim made under Part 11 or 12; or

       (c) it purports to prevent a person from making a claim under
            Part 11 or 12.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a provision or term of a
contract, agreement or notice that is fair and reasonable having regard
to the circumstances which were, or ought reasonably to have been,
known to or in the contemplation of the parties when the contract,
agreement or notice was made.

 (3) In determining for the purposes of subsection (2) whether a
provision or term of a contract, agreement or notice is fair and
reasonable, the court is to take into consideration the prescribed
matters.

 (4) To avoid doubt, section 26(1) of the Electronic Transactions
Act 2010 (which relates to the limitation of liability of network
service providers) does not apply in relation to any liability under the
provisions of Part 12 or 13 in relation to the liability of an online
service provider.

Regulations for Parts 10 to 14

 103.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for carrying out or
giving effect to Parts 10 to 14, and for any matter that is required or
permitted to be prescribed under those Parts.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the regulations may provide for
such saving, transitional and other consequential provisions as the
Minister considers necessary or expedient.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               115

 (3) The powers conferred by this section do not extend to any
matter for which Rules of Court or Family Justice Rules may be made
under section 104 or 105.

Rules of Court

 104.—(1) The Rules Committee constituted under section 80(3) of
the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969 may make Rules of Court
to regulate and prescribe the procedure and practice to be followed in
respect of civil proceedings brought under this Act, and any matters
incidental to or relating to any such procedure and practice.

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), Rules of Court may be made
for the following purposes:

       (a) to provide for pre‑action and non‑party discovery;

       (b) to provide for service of court documents and court
            process;

       (c) to provide for expedited procedures;

       (d) to provide for any direction or order made in the course of
            any civil proceedings under this Act to be published in a
            specified manner;

       (e) to provide for the procedure for the court to grant any
            injunctive relief or make any ancillary orders for the
            purposes of actions in civil proceedings brought under this
            Act;

        (f) in relation to proceedings for an order under Part 13, where
            the name of any party to whom the order is intended to
            apply is unknown, for that party to be identified by an
            Internet location address, a website, a username or account,
            an electronic mail address or any other unique identifier;

       (g) to expressly empower a court to do any of the following
            things in any civil proceedings brought under this Act in
            the court, where the court thinks it fit to do so in the interest
            of justice, safety or propriety:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
116  NO. 23 OF 2025

               (i) to order the redaction of any information (including
                   the name of a party) contained in any document filed
                   in those civil proceedings;

              (ii) to order that those civil proceedings be heard in
                   private;

             (iii) to order any person to do any act or refrain from any
                   conduct, so as to prevent the identification of any
                   witness or party in those civil proceedings;

       (h) to provide for the procedures in any proceedings
            brought —

               (i) under Part 10 in relation to a claim relating to the tort
                   of incitement of violence mentioned in section 88; or

              (ii) under Part 11 or 12 in relation to a claim relating to
                   the online harmful activity of incitement of violence,

       (h) and for the allocation and distribution of damages awarded
            to members of the group to which the proceedings relate;

        (i) to provide for the proceedings mentioned in paragraph (h)
            to be brought by one or more members of the group on
            behalf of the group without naming or identifying the
            members of the group or without the consent of those
            members and to provide for the procedure for members of
            the group to register their interests in the proceedings;

        (j) to provide for the costs (including disbursements) and fees
            of any civil proceedings brought under this Act, and for
            regulating any matter relating to the costs of such
            proceedings;

       (k) to prescribe anything that this Act requires or permits to be
            prescribed by Rules of Court.

Family Justice Rules

 105.—(1) The Family Justice Rules Committee constituted under
section 46(1) of the Family Justice Act 2014 may make Family Justice
Rules to regulate and prescribe the procedure and practice to be
followed in the Family Justice Courts in respect of civil proceedings

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               117

under this Act that are within the jurisdiction of the Family Justice
Courts and any matters incidental to or relating to any such
procedure and practice.

 (2) The Family Justice Rules may, instead of providing for any
matter, refer to any provision made or to be made about that matter by
practice directions issued for the time being by the Registrar of the
Family Justice Courts.

Commencement of proceedings in Family Court

 106.—(1) Any Part 10 proceedings may be commenced in the first
instance in a Family Court, in which any related family proceedings
are pending, with the permission of that court.

 (2) A court may grant permission under subsection (1) only if it is
just, expeditious and economical for the disposal of the Part 10
proceedings, for the Part 10 proceedings to be commenced in that
court.

 (3) A Family Court may, on the application of any party or on the
Family Court’s own initiative, order that any Part 10 proceedings
pending in the Family Court be transferred to a District Court or a
Magistrate’s Court, if there is sufficient reason to do so.

 (4) A District Court or a Magistrate’s Court may, on the application
of any party or on that court’s own initiative, if it is just, expeditious
and economical for the disposal of the Part 10 proceedings, transfer
any Part 10 proceedings pending in the District Court or Magistrate’s
Court to a Family Court in which any related family proceedings are
pending.

 (5) This section does not affect —

       (a) any power of a District Court to transfer proceedings to
            itself under section 54A of the State Courts Act 1970;

       (b) any power of a District Court to transfer proceedings to a
            Magistrate’s Court under section 54D of the State Courts
            Act 1970; and

       (c) any power of the General Division of the High Court to
            transfer proceedings to itself or to any other court under

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
118  NO. 23 OF 2025

           section 54B or 54C of the State Courts Act 1970 or any
           other law.

(6) In this section —

      (a) “family proceedings” has the meaning given by
           section 2(1) of the Family Justice Act 2014;

      (b) “Part 10 proceedings” means any proceedings for a claim
           or action under Part 10 seeking relief under section 99 or
           100 (excluding proceedings seeking relief under
           section 96, 97 or 98); and

      (c) family proceedings are related to Part 10 proceedings if —

             (i) both of those proceedings involve any common issue
                  of law or fact; or

            (ii) the rights to relief claimed in both of those
                  proceedings are in respect of the same conduct or
                  course of conduct.

                                   PART 15

                  AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS

Amendment of Defamation Act 1957

 107.—(1) In the Defamation Act 1957, after section 18, insert —

      “Enhanced damages when defendant fails to comply with
      request to publish reply statement to online defamation

       18A.—(1) In any action for defamation in relation to a
      statement published at an online location, if it is proved that —

             (a) the claimant has made a reasonable request that the
                  defendant publish a reasonable statement by way of
                  explanation or contradiction to the alleged
                  defamatory statement (referred to in this section as
                  a reply statement); and

             (b) the defendant has refused or neglected to publish a
                  reasonable reply statement, or has published it in a

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               119

                  manner that is not adequate or reasonable having
                  regard to all the circumstances,

      the court may award enhanced damages to the claimant as the
      court thinks is just and equitable in the circumstances.

       (2) The award of enhanced damages that a court may award
      under subsection (1) —

             (a) is in addition to any general and special damages that
                  may be awarded;

             (b) is distinct from punitive damages or aggravated
                  damages, and the principles governing the award of
                  those damages need not apply to an award of
                  enhanced damages; and

             (c) may in the court’s discretion be awarded in addition
                  to or in lieu of any punitive or aggravated damages.

       (3) In this section, “online location” means any internet
      domain, website, webpage, chatroom, chat group, channel,
      group, forum, social media account page or any other location,
      that can be accessed by means of the Internet.

       (4) The Minister may make regulations —

             (a) to prescribe the maximum limit of enhanced damages
                  that a court may award under subsection (1) and such
                  regulations may make provisions of a saving or
                  transitional nature; and

             (b) to clarify the application of the Limitation Act 1959 to
                  an action for a claim for enhanced damages under
                  this Act including prescribing a period of limitation
                  for that action.”.

 (2) For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of this
section, the Minister may, by order in the Gazette, make provisions of
a saving or transitional nature consequent on the enactment of this
section that the Minister may consider necessary or expedient.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
120  NO. 23 OF 2025

Amendment of Private Security Industry Act 2007

 108.—(1) In the Private Security Industry Act 2007, in
section 17C —

       (a) in the section heading, replace “alarm or distress” with
            “alarm, distress or humiliation”;

       (b) in subsection (1)(a) and (b), replace “indecent,
            threatening, abusive or insulting” with “threatening,
            abusive, insulting, sexual or indecent”; and

       (c) in subsection (1), replace “alarm or distress” wherever it
            appears with “alarm, distress or humiliation”.

 (2) For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of this
section, the Minister may, by order in the Gazette, make provisions of
a saving or transitional nature consequent on the enactment of this
section that the Minister may consider necessary or expedient.

Amendment of Protection from Harassment Act 2014

 109.—(1) The Protection from Harassment Act 2014 is amended in
the manner set out in the Schedule.

 (2) For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of any
provision of the Schedule, the Minister may, by order in the Gazette,
make provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on the
enactment of the provision that the Minister may consider necessary
or expedient.

Related amendment to Family Justice Act 2014

 110.—(1) In the Family Justice Act 2014 —

       (a) in section 23, replace subsection (2B) with —

                    “(2B) An appeal shall lie to the General Division of
                  the High Court from a decision of a Family Court
                  in —

                          (a) proceedings under Part 3 of the Protection
                               from Harassment Act 2014; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               121

                          (b) proceedings under Part 10 of the Online
                               Safety (Relief and Accountability)
                               Act 2025,

                  only with permission of that Family Court or the
                  General Division of the High Court.”; and

       (b) in section 26, replace subsection (6A) with —

                    “(6A) The Family Court has the jurisdiction and
                  powers of a District Court to hear civil proceedings in
                  relation to —

                          (a) any claim or order under the Protection
                               from Harassment Act 2014, except any
                               claim under section 11 of that Act; and

                          (b) any claim or action under Part 10 of the
                               Online Safety (Relief and Accountability)
                               Act 2025 seeking relief under section 99 or
                               100 of that Act (excluding proceedings
                               seeking relief under section 96, 97 or 98 of
                               that Act).”.

 (2) For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of this
section, the Minister may, by order in the Gazette, make provisions of
a saving or transitional nature consequent on the enactment of this
section that the Minister may consider necessary or expedient.

Related amendment to Info-communications Media
Development Authority Act 2016

 111.—(1) In the Info-communications Media Development
Authority Act 2016, in section 5(1), after paragraph (e), insert —

          “(ea) to establish and administer systems in Singapore for
                  the promotion of online safety including but not
                  limited to any system necessary for the administration
                  of the Online Safety (Relief and Accountability)
                  Act 2025;

            (eb) to provide administrative and personnel support
                  services to the Commissioner of Online Safety

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
122  NO. 23 OF 2025

                  appointed under section 5 of the Online Safety (Relief
                  and Accountability) Act 2025;”.

 (2) For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of this
section, the Minister may, by order in the Gazette, make provisions of
a saving or transitional nature consequent on the enactment of this
section that the Minister may consider necessary or expedient.

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                         Section 109

                     AMENDMENTS TO PROTECTION FROM
                                HARASSMENT ACT 2014

Amendment of section 2

 1. In the Protection from Harassment Act 2014 (called in this Schedule the
POHA), in section 2(1) —

        (a) before the definition of “author”, insert —

                   “ “administrator”, in relation to an online location, means an
                         individual or entity who —

                                    (a) develops and maintains the online location;

                                    (b) organises, manages or supervises the use of the
                                         online location;

                                    (c) manages or regulates membership of, or access
                                         to, the online location; or

                                    (d) has the authority to decide whether any
                                         communication or material may be included
                                         on or excluded from the online location, or
                                         where to place the communication or material
                                         on the online location, or otherwise exercise
                                         editorial control over the online location,

                         but does not include —

                                    (e) an internet intermediary;

                                     (f) the provider of a service which gives the public
                                         access to the internet;

                                    (g) the provider of a computing resource service;
                                         and

                                    (h) the provider of a telecommunication service;”;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               123

                             THE SCHEDULE — continued

        (b) after the definition of “computing resource service”, insert —

                   “ “correction (administrator) order” means an order made under
                         section 15CB;”;

        (c) after the definition of “interim disabling order”, insert —

                   “ “interim notification (administrator) order” means an order
                         made under section 16BAA;”;

        (d) after the definition of “interim notification order”, insert —

                   “ “interim stop publication (administrator) order” means an order
                         made under section 16AB;”;

        (e) after the definition of “offending communication”, insert —

                   “ “online activity” means any activity conducted by means of the
                         internet;”;

         (f) replace the definition of “online location” with —

                   “ “online location” means any internet domain, website, webpage,
                         chatroom, chat group, channel, group, forum, social media
                         account page or any other location, that can be accessed by
                         means of the internet;”; and

        (g) after the definition of “statement”, insert —

                   “ “stop publication (administrator) order” means an order made
                         under section 15CA;”.

Amendment of section 3

 2. In the POHA, in section 3 —

        (a) replace the section heading with —

                   “Intentionally causing harassment, alarm, distress or
                   humiliation”;

        (b) replace subsection (1) with —

                 “(1) An individual or entity must not, with intent to cause

                   harassment, alarm, distress or humiliation to another person
                   (called in this section the target person), by any means —

                            (a) use any threatening, abusive, insulting, sexual or
                                 indecent words or behaviour;

                            (b) make any threatening, abusive, insulting, sexual or
                                 indecent communication; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
124  NO. 23 OF 2025

                         THE SCHEDULE — continued

                        (c) publish any identity information of the target person
                             or a related person of the target person,

               and as a result causing the target person or any other person (each
               called in this section the victim) harassment, alarm, distress or
               humiliation.”; and

     (c) after illustration (d), insert —

.    “(e) X is a photo-journalist who documents indigenous tribes. X

     takes a photograph of a group of naked tribes people preparing a

     meal and posts it on a news website as part of a feature on the tribe.

     X’s post is not sexual or indecent.”.

Amendment of section 4

 3. In the POHA, in section 4 —

        (a) replace the section heading with —

                   “Harassment, alarm, distress or humiliation”;

        (b) replace subsection (1) with —

                 “(1) An individual or entity must not by any means —

                            (a) use any threatening, abusive, insulting, sexual or
                                 indecent words or behaviour;

                            (b) make any threatening, abusive, insulting, sexual or
                                 indecent communication,

                   which is heard, seen or otherwise perceived by any person (called
                   in this section the victim) likely to be caused harassment, alarm,
                   distress or humiliation.

                     (1A) An individual or entity does not contravene subsection (1)
                   where the sexual or indecent words or behaviour, or the sexual or
                   indecent communication (as the case may be), has a legitimate
                   purpose related to science, medicine, education or art.

                        Explanation.— Sexual or indecent words or behaviour, or
                   sexual or indecent communication, has a legitimate purpose
                   related to art which a reasonable person would regard as art.”; and

        (c) after illustration (c), insert —

                    “(d) X, the supervisor of a counselling service provider,

                   circulates training material with case studies of sexually harassing

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
   ONLINE SAFETY

   (RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                                 125

            THE SCHEDULE — continued

   online posts in an internal messaging group for counsellors. X’s
   communication has a legitimate purpose related to education.

       (e) X posts sex-education graphics in a messaging group with
   X’s colleagues. The material is unrelated to the group’s work, and
   X continues despite requests from X’s colleagues to stop because
   they find it harassing. X’s posts do not have a legitimate purpose
   related to science, medicine, education or art.”.

Amendment of section 6

 4. In the POHA, in section 6(1)(a) and (b), replace “indecent, threatening,
abusive or insulting” with “threatening, abusive, insulting, sexual or indecent”.

Amendment of section 7

 5. In the POHA, in section 7 —

        (a) in subsections (2)(b) and (c)(i) and (ii), (4) and (5), replace “alarm or
             distress” with “alarm, distress or humiliation”;

        (b) in subsection (3), after paragraph (c), insert —

                     “(ca) engaging in online activity in any online location

                                 (whether public or private) which is visited by the
                                 victim or a related person;

                          (cb) making a presence felt to the victim or a related person
                                 in any online location (whether public or private);”;
                                 and

        (c) after illustration (c), insert —

.  “(d) Y repeatedly posts emojis or symbols on X’s social media

   account page even though X has asked Y on multiple occasions to

   stop interacting with X.

       (e) Y sends messages to the social media accounts of many
   family members and friends of X, with disparaging comments
   about X.

       (f) X has blocked Y on a social media service and told Y to stop
   associating with X. Despite this, Y joins every online community
   that X is part of across multiple social media services, and
   persistently makes Y’s presence felt to X by engaging in online
   activity in these communities, even though X cannot communicate
   with Y directly.

   This act is not an act associated with stalking of X by Y:

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
126  NO. 23 OF 2025

                             THE SCHEDULE — continued

                    (g) Y uses Y’s social media account to follow X’s public social
                media page and regularly checks for updates, where X has not taken
                steps to stop Y from doing so.”.

Amendment of section 8A

 6. In the POHA, in section 8A(3), in the definition of “harm”, in paragraph (b),
replace “alarm or distress” with “alarm, distress or humiliation”.

Amendment of section 8B

 7. In the POHA, in section 8B(5)(b), replace “alarm or distress” with “alarm,
distress or humiliation”.

New section 11A

 8. In the POHA, after section 11, insert —

         “Enhanced damages for statutory tort under section 11

            11A.—(1) In any civil proceedings for a statutory tort under section 11
           against any individual or entity alleged to have contravened section 3, 4,
           5 or 7 in respect of the victim (called in this section the respondent),
           where the conduct that is the subject of the claim comprises wholly or
           partly of any online activity, the court may, if it thinks just and equitable
           in the circumstances to do so, award enhanced damages attributable to
           the online activity to the victim where —

                   (a) the victim made a reasonable written request to the
                         respondent the effect of which is to ask the respondent to
                         address the online activity that is the subject of the claim; and

                   (b) the respondent failed, without reasonable excuse, to address
                         the online activity within a reasonable time.

            (2) The award of enhanced damages that a court may award under
           subsection (1) —

                   (a) is in addition to any general and special damages that may be
                         awarded;

                   (b) is distinct from punitive damages or aggravated damages,
                         and the principles governing the award of those damages
                         need not apply to an award of enhanced damages; and

                    (c) may in the court’s discretion be awarded in addition to or in
                         lieu of any punitive or aggravated damages.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               127

                             THE SCHEDULE — continued

            (3) The Minister may make regulations —

                   (a) to prescribe the maximum limits of enhanced damages that a
                         court may award under subsection (1); and

                   (b) to clarify the application of the Limitation Act 1959 to an
                         action for a claim for enhanced damages under this Act
                         including prescribing a period of limitation for that action.”.

Amendment of section 12

 9. In the POHA, in section 12 —

        (a) in subsection (2B)(b), delete “substantially”;

        (b) in subsection (2E), delete “substantially” wherever it appears;

        (c) after subsection (2F), insert —

                 “(2G) Where a court is satisfied on the balance of probabilities

                   that —

                            (a) the respondent’s contravention involves an offending
                                 communication; and

                            (b) the respondent or a third party has published, or is
                                 likely to publish or continue to publish, the offending
                                 communication on an online location,

                   the court may also, if it is just and equitable in the circumstances
                   to do so, make a protection order requiring the administrator
                   concerned to stop the offending communication or any identical
                   copy of the offending communication from being published in
                   Singapore at the online location within a specified time.”;

        (d) in subsection (3), replace “(2E) or (2F)” with “(2E), (2F) or (2G)”;

        (e) in subsection (9), replace “alarm or distress” with “alarm, distress or
             humiliation”;

         (f) in subsection (9), replace “alarmed or distressed” with “alarmed,
             distressed or humiliated”; and

        (g) after subsection (10), insert —

                 “(11) To avoid doubt, in this section, a communication that is

                   similar to the offending communication includes a
                   communication that is identical to the offending
                   communication.”.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
128  NO. 23 OF 2025

                             THE SCHEDULE — continued

Amendment of section 13

 10. In the POHA, in section 13 —

        (a) in subsection (1B)(a)(ii), delete “substantially”;

        (b) after subsection (1C), insert —

                 “(1D) A court may, on an application for a protection order

                   under section 12(2G), make an expedited protection order against
                   an administrator providing any thing that may be provided in a
                   protection order under section 12(2G), if the court is satisfied
                   that —

                            (a) there is prima facie evidence that —

                                      (i) the respondent’s alleged contravention
                                          involves an offending communication; and

                                     (ii) the publication of the offending
                                          communication by the respondent or the
                                          third party mentioned in section 12(2G) is —

                                           (A) imminent or is likely to continue; and

                                           (B) likely to have a substantial adverse effect
                                                 on the victim or the victim’s day‑to‑day
                                                 activities; and

                            (b) it is just and equitable in the circumstances to make
                                 the protection order on an expedited basis.”;

        (c) in subsection (2), replace “and (1C)” with “, (1C) and (1D)”;

        (d) in subsection (3A)(c), after “third party’s communication”, insert “, or
             an administrator to stop the publication of a third party’s
             communication”; and

        (e) after subsection (5), insert —

                 “(6) To avoid doubt, in this section, a communication that is

                   similar to the offending communication includes a
                   communication that is identical to the offending
                   communication.”.

Amendment of section 15

 11. In the POHA, in section 15(1) —

        (a) in paragraph (e), replace the full‑stop at the end with a semi‑colon; and

        (b) after paragraph (e), insert —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               129

                             THE SCHEDULE — continued

                       “(f) a correction (administrator) order;

                            (g) a stop publication (administrator) order.”.

Amendment of section 15A
 12. In the POHA, in section 15A —

        (a) in subsection (3), delete “substantially”; and
        (b) after subsection (4), insert —

                 “(5) To avoid doubt, in this section, a statement that is similar to

                   the relevant statement includes a statement that is identical to the
                   relevant statement.”.

Amendment of section 15B
 13. In the POHA, in section 15B, after subsection (5), insert —

            “(6) To avoid doubt, in this section, a statement that is substantially

            similar to the relevant statement includes a statement that is identical to
            the relevant statement.”.

Amendment of section 15C
 14. In the POHA, in section 15C, after subsection (3), insert —

            “(4) In this section, “specified” means specified in the disabling

            order.”.

New sections 15CA and 15CB
 15. In the POHA, after section 15C, insert —

          “Stop publication (administrator) order

              15CA.—(1) A court may, on an application by the subject of an
            alleged false statement of fact (called in this section the relevant
            statement), make a stop publication (administrator) order against an
            administrator of an online location (called in this section the
            respondent) if —

                     (a) the court is satisfied on the balance of probabilities that —
                               (i) any material consisting of or containing the relevant
                                   statement has been or is being published on the
                                   online location; and
                              (ii) the relevant statement is a false statement of fact;
                                   and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
130  NO. 23 OF 2025

                     THE SCHEDULE — continued

             (b) it is just and equitable in the circumstances to make the stop
                  publication (administrator) order.

      (2) A stop publication (administrator) order may require the
     respondent to stop, within a specified time, the publication in
     Singapore of any specified material on the online location
     administered by the respondent that consists of or contains the
     relevant statement, or any similar copy of the specified material.

      (3) In this section, “specified” means specified in the stop publication
     (administrator) order.

      (4) To avoid doubt, in this section, material that is similar to the
     specified material includes material that is identical to the specified
     material.

     Correction (administrator) order

      15CB.—(1) A court may, on an application by the subject of an
     alleged false statement of fact (called in this section the relevant
     statement), make a correction (administrator) order against an
     administrator of an online location (called in this section the
     respondent) if —

             (a) the court is satisfied on the balance of probabilities that —

                       (i) any material consisting of or containing the relevant
                           statement has been or is being published on the
                           online location; and

                      (ii) the relevant statement is a false statement of fact;
                           and

             (b) it is just and equitable in the circumstances to make the
                  correction (administrator) order.

      (2) A correction (administrator) order may require the respondent to
     publish in Singapore a correction (administrator) notice, within a
     specified time —

             (a) to any specified person or description of persons; and

             (b) in a specified form and manner, which may include
                  publication at a specified online location, or in specified
                  proximity to every copy of the specified material published
                  on the online location administered by the respondent that
                  consists of or contains the relevant statement.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               131

                             THE SCHEDULE — continued
              (3) A correction (administrator) notice must contain all or any of the
            following as may be specified in the correction (administrator) order:

                     (a) a statement, in such terms as may be specified, that the court
                          has determined the specified material consists of or contains
                          a false statement of fact;

                     (b) a statement, in such terms as may be specified, correcting
                          the false statement of fact, or a reference to a specified
                          location where the statement may be found.

              (4) In this section, “specified” means specified in the correction
            (administrator) order.”.

Amendment of section 15D
 16. In the POHA, in section 15D, after subsection (4), insert —

            “(5) In this section, “specified” means specified in the targeted

            correction order.”.

Amendment of section 16
 17. In the POHA, in section 16(1) —

        (a) replace “16B and 16BA” with “16AB, 16B, 16BA and 16BAA”;
        (b) replace “or (d)” with “, (d), (e) or (f)”;
        (c) in paragraph (d), replace the full‑stop at the end with a semi‑colon; and
        (d) after paragraph (d), insert —

                      “(e) a stop publication (administrator) order — an interim

                                 stop publication (administrator) order;
                            (f) a correction (administrator) order — an interim

                                 notification (administrator) order.”.

New section 16AB
 18. In the POHA, after section 16AA, insert —

          “Interim stop publication (administrator) order

              16AB.—(1) A court may make an interim stop publication
            (administrator) order against the respondent in relation to an
            application for a stop publication (administrator) order if —

                     (a) the court is satisfied that there is prima facie evidence
                          that —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
132  NO. 23 OF 2025

                             THE SCHEDULE — continued

                               (i) any material consisting of or containing the relevant
                                   statement (called in this section the specified
                                   material) has been or is being published on an
                                   online location;

                              (ii) the relevant statement is a false statement of fact;
                                   and

                             (iii) the publication of the specified material on the
                                   online location administered by the respondent has
                                   caused or is likely to cause the subject harm; and

                     (b) it is just and equitable in the circumstances to make the stop
                          publication (administrator) order on an expedited basis.

              (2) Section 15CA(2) and (3) applies to an interim stop publication
            (administrator) order as it applies to a stop publication (administrator)
            order.”.

Amendment of section 16B

 19. In the POHA, in section 16B, after subsection (4), insert —

            “(5) To avoid doubt, in this section, a statement that is substantially

            similar to the relevant statement includes a statement that is identical to
            the relevant statement.”.

Amendment of section 16BA

 20. In the POHA, in section 16BA(2)(a), replace “false” with “relevant”.

New section 16BAA

 21. In the POHA, after section 16BA, insert —

          “Interim notification (administrator) order

              16BAA.—(1) A court may make an interim notification
            (administrator) order against the respondent in relation to an
            application for a correction (administrator) order if —

                     (a) the court is satisfied that there is prima facie evidence
                          that —

                               (i) any material consisting of or containing the relevant
                                   statement (called in this section the specified
                                   material) has been or is being published on an
                                   online location;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
ONLINE SAFETY

(RELIEF AND ACCOUNTABILITY)                               133

                             THE SCHEDULE — continued

                              (ii) the relevant statement is a false statement of fact;
                                   and

                             (iii) the publication of the specified material on the
                                   online location administered by the respondent has
                                   caused or is likely to cause the subject harm; and

                     (b) it is just and equitable in the circumstances to make the
                          interim notification (administrator) order.

              (2) An interim notification (administrator) order may require the
            respondent to publish in Singapore an interim (administrator) notice,
            within a specified time —

                     (a) to any specified person or description of persons; and

                     (b) in a specified form and manner, which may include
                          publication at a specified online location, or in specified
                          proximity to every copy of the specified material published
                          on the online location administered by the respondent that
                          consists of or contains the relevant statement.

              (3) An interim (administrator) notice must —

                     (a) state that there is a pending application for a correction
                          (administrator) order in respect of the specified material;
                          and

                     (b) be in such form and published in such manner as may be
                          specified in the interim notification (administrator) order.”.

Amendment of section 16C

 22. In the POHA, in section 16C —

        (a) in paragraph (a)(iii), after “third party’s communication,”, insert “or an
             administrator to stop the publication of a third party’s
             communication,”; and

        (b) in paragraph (c), after “a targeted correction order”, insert “, a stop
             publication (administrator) order, a correction (administrator) order”.

Amendment of section 17

 23. In the POHA, in section 17(3)(a), replace “alarm or distress” with “alarm,
distress or humiliation”.

Amendment of section 19

 24. In the POHA, in section 19(2)(d), replace “section 12” with “section 11, 12”.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
134  NO. 23 OF 2025

                             THE SCHEDULE — continued

Amendment of section 21

 25. In the POHA, in section 21(1), after paragraph (ba), insert —

               “(bb) a protection order made under section 12(2G), or an

                          expedited protection order made under section 13(1D);”.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
