THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                  PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
                         ORDINANCE 1876

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                            2020 Ed.

         Presbyterian Church
           Ordinance 1876

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

     1.  Short title
     2.  Power to sell land comprised in Indenture No. 215
     3.  Application of proceeds of sale

An Ordinance to empower the Trustees of the Presbyterian Church in
  Singapore to sell certain property, and for other purposes.

                                                              [24 March 1876]

  Whereas by an indenture dated 3 August 1866, and made between
the Reverend Arthur Tidman, of the London Mission House,
Finsbury, London, Doctor of Divinity, the Foreign Secretary of the
Missionary Society usually called the London Missionary Society, of
the first part, and the Reverend William Jeffrey, Minister of the
Presbyterian Congregation at Singapore, John James Greenshields,
Matthew Little, Robert Jamie, John Anderson, Robert Little, M.D.,
and John Stowe Young, respectively of Singapore, inhabitants, of the
second part, the said Arthur Tidman, as such Secretary, in pursuance
of the resolution of the Board of Directors of the said Society, by
which the affairs of the said Society are managed, did, in
consideration therein mentioned, subject nevertheless to the trust
and purposes contained in the said recited indenture, assign unto the
said William Jeffrey, John James Greenshields, Matthew Little,
Robert Jamie, John Anderson, Robert Little, M.D., and John Stowe
Young, their executors and assigns, all that piece or parcel of land,
hereditaments and premises, comprised in a certain indenture,
No. 215, made or bearing to be made between the United
Company of Merchants of England trading to the East Indies, of
the one part, and C. H. Thompson, of Singapore, in the East Indies, of
the other part, dated 25 January 1827, whereby the said United

                                                           1

                                                                                              31.12.2021
   Presbyterian Church

2  Ordinance 1876       2020 Ed.

Company of Merchants of England trading to the East Indies did, for
the consideration therein mentioned, demise and let to the said
C. H. Thompson, his executors, administrators, representatives, and
assigns, the said piece or parcel of land and hereditaments for the term
of 999 years from the day of the date thereof, which said piece or
parcel of land and hereditaments were thereafter, on 30 September
1828, assigned by the said C. H. Thompson to the Treasurer and
Secretary of the said Missionary Society, for and on behalf of the said
Society:

  And whereas the edifice or chapel erected on the said
last mentioned piece or parcel of land, and which has hitherto been
used as a place of Christian worship by the members and
congregation of the Presbyterian Church, is in a dilapidated
condition and unsafe to be used as a public place of worship, and
in consequence of the great increase of traffic, factories,
public-houses, and other noisome trades, the services of the church
are frequently interrupted and disturbed; and it is desirable, therefore,
that a more suitable place of worship should be erected in another
more eligible locality:

  And whereas the Governor, acting for and on behalf of Her Majesty
the Queen, upon the application of the members of the Deacons’
Court of the Presbyterian Church in Singapore, has granted unto the
Reverend William Dale, Minister of the Presbyterian Congregation at
Singapore, Robert Little, M.D., John Hutchison Robertson, M.D.,
Samuel Dunlop, John Anderson, Robert Jamie, Alexander Maughan
Martin, Thomas Cuthberton, James Parker Niven, William
McKerrow, and William Alexander Pickering, their heirs and
assigns, a piece or parcel of land situate in the town of Singapore,
in trust, for the purpose of having a building or buildings erected
thereon for religious worship and use of the members of any
denomination of Christians holding as their confession of faith the
ecclesiastical documents received by the different branches of the
Presbyterian Church, and known as the Westminster Standard; and in
order to provide the required funds for the building of a new church or
place of worship as aforesaid, it is expedient that the said piece or
parcel of land and hereditaments on which the said chapel or place of
worship is now standing should be sold and disposed of; but as doubts
          Presbyterian Church

2020 Ed.  Ordinance 1876       3

have arisen as to whether the said trustees have power under the
indenture herein first recited to sell the same, and it is expedient for
the furtherance of religion that the said buildings for religious
worship should be erected and the proposal herein recited be carried
into effect:

  It is hereby declared and enacted by the Governor of the Straits
Settlements, with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council
thereof, as follows:

Short title

 1. This Ordinance may be cited as the Presbyterian Church
Ordinance 1876.

Power to sell land comprised in Indenture No. 215

 2. The said trustees, William Jeffrey, John James Greenshields,
Matthew Little, Robert Jamie, John Anderson, Robert Little, M.D.,
and John Stowe Young, or the survivors of them, or any 2 or more of
such surviving trustees who are for the time being resident within the
Colony may sell and dispose of the said piece or parcel of land
comprised in and demised by the hereinbefore recited indenture of
lease, No. 215, made between the said United Company of Merchants
of England trading to the East Indies, of the one part, and the said
C. H. Thompson, of the other part, dated 25 January 1827, and also all
erections and buildings which have been erected and are now
standing on the said premises, with power also to execute assurances,
give effectual receipts for the purchase money, and do all other acts
and things for completing such sale as they, or the survivors of them,
or any 2 or more of such survivors, think proper.

                               31.12.2021
   Presbyterian Church

4  Ordinance 1876       2020 Ed.

Application of proceeds of sale

 3.—(1) The moneys to arise from such sale, after deducting the
costs and expenses attending the sale or otherwise incurred in relation
thereto, shall be paid to the trustees, or continuing acting trustees for
the time being, of the said piece or parcel of land so granted by Her
Majesty the Queen as hereinbefore mentioned for the purpose of
erecting and building on such land or any part thereof a new church or
chapel or other place of worship for the use of the members and
congregation of the said Presbyterian Church in Singapore, and shall
be applied by such trustees to the building of such church or chapel
only.

 (2) The building when erected shall be held subject to the trusts set
out in the grant above recited, and dated 6 May 1875.

 (3) The receipts for the purchase money given by the persons
exercising the power of sale hereby conferred shall be sufficient
discharges to the purchasers, who shall not be bound to see to the
application of such purchase money.
                 LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

                PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
                     ORDINANCE 1876

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Ordinance II of 1876 — The Presbyterian Church Ordinance, 1876

Bill                  : S.S.G.G. No. 9/1876

First Reading         : 18 February 1876

Second Reading        : 14 March 1876

Notice of Amendments  : 14 March 1876

Third Reading         : 14 March 1876

Commencement          : 24 March 1876

2. 1920 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 175 (Presbyterian Church)

Operation             : 28 November 1921

3. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 208 (Presbyterian Church)

Operation             : 1 August 1926

4. 1936 Revised Edition — Presbyterian Church Ordinance (Chapter 252)

Operation             : 1 September 1936

5. 1955 Revised Edition — Presbyterian Church Ordinance (Chapter 309)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

6. 1985 Revised Edition — Presbyterian Church Ordinance (Chapter 372)

Operation             : 30 March 1987

                                             31.12.2021
                             ii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
