THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                  STREET WORKS ACT 1995

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
                                                                      2020 Ed.

         Street Works Act 1995

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Exemption
     2.  Authority to manage, maintain and repair public streets and
     3.  administer this Act
     4.

                                        PART 2

                                 PUBLIC STREETS

 5. Power to construct and improve streets
 6. Public streets and bridges vested in Government
 7. Power to enter State land to construct and maintain road

         structures and road related facilities
 8. Power to order stoppage of activity causing damage to public

         street
 8A. Carrying out of engineering works within road structure safety

         zone
 9. Power to enter private land to construct new streets
10. Creation of rights in, under or over land
10A. Power to tap utilities for operation and maintenance of road

         related facility
11. Owners who suffer substantial impairment in rights in land may

         require their land to be acquired
11A. Owner-initiated acquisition
12. Power to enter land for inspection and survey, etc.
13. Removal of projections or obstructions
14. Declaration to vest street reserves in Government
15. Authority may recover costs and expenses of new street or of

         widening, opening, etc., of public street
16. Settling of apportionment of costs and expenses
17. Powers to control works on public streets

                                                      1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.              Street Works Act 1995                                 2

                      PART 3

                      Division 1 — Private streets

Section   Private persons constructing new streets
   18.    Expiry of approval of plans
   19.    Determination of amount to be deposited or secured and date for
   20.    completion
          Authority may execute street works or cause street works to be
   21.    properly carried out
          Refund of deposit or return of security when street works have
   22.    been completed
          Refund of deposit or return of security when building operations
   23.    are not commenced

          Division 2 — Maintenance of private streets

24. Repair of private streets
25. Notice on person causing private street to be in dangerous or

         defective condition

                                        PART 4
                                  DECLARATION
26. Private streets may be declared public streets

                                        PART 5
                                     WALKWAYS

27. Provisions of footways, etc.
28. Maintenance of footways

                             PART 6
                      UTILITY WORKS

29. Utility services

                      PART 7

                      BACKLANES

29A.      Authority to manage, maintain and repair backlanes vested in
          Government
30.       General provisions as to backlanes
31.       Backlanes to be levelled, paved, etc., by Authority

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
3        Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

         PART 8

         SUPPLEMENTARY

Section  Power to erect lighting apparatuses, street name signs and other
   32.   road related facilities
         Obstruction of public streets, five-footways and private
   32A.  footways
         Damaging public streets, etc.
   33.   [Repealed]
   34.   Mandatory order
   35.   Provision as to appeal against mandatory order
   36.   Powers of Authority in cases of emergency
   37.   Authority in executing works to provide roads, etc., where
   38.   existing ones are damaged
         Penalty for removing mark set up by Authority
   39.   Compensation
   40.   Occupier may execute work upon default of owner
   41.   Liability of transferor who has not given notice
   42.   Recovery of costs and expenses payable by owners
   43.   Recovery of costs and expenses by instalments
   44.   Proceedings if occupier opposes execution of works
   45.   Licences, approval, consent, etc., granted by Authority
   46.   Service of notices
   47.   Receipts and notices may be given or served by authorised
   48.   officer
         Protection from personal liability
   48A.  General penalties
   49.   Jurisdiction of District Court
   49A.  Inaccuracies in documents
   50.   Evidence
   51.   Composition of offences
   52.   Regulations
   53.   Saving and transitional provisions
   54.   The Schedule — Subject matters of Regulations

An Act relating to the construction, improvement, repair,
  maintenance and management of streets and backlanes and other

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     4

matters connected therewith, and the prevention of obstruction of
five-footways and private footways.

                                                                                                        [11/2003]

                                                        [1 September 1995]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Street Works Act 1995.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “accredited checker” means a person who is registered as an
         accredited checker under section 16 of the Building Control
         Act 1989;

      “annual value” has the meaning given by the Property Tax
         Act 1960;

      “Authority” means the Land Transport Authority of Singapore
         established under the Land Transport Authority of Singapore
         Act 1995;

      “backlane” includes —

              (a) every existing backlane and any part thereof and any
                   approach thereto;

              (b) all land already or hereafter acquired or set apart for
                   or laid out as a backlane; and

              (c) all channels, drains and appurtenances of a backlane;

      “bridge” includes any flyover, overpass and viaduct;

      “building” means any permanent or temporary building and
         includes any structure or erection of whatever kind or nature
         (whether permanent or temporary) and in particular —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
5  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

   (a) a wall (including a retaining wall), partition, gate,
        fence, paling, platform, staging, post, pillar, shoring,
        hoarding or frame;

   (b) a slip, dock, wharf, pier, jetty, landing stage or bridge;

   (c) a culvert, crossing, bridge, underpass or tunnel; or

   (d) a sewage treatment plant, sewer, control centre, pump
        house, substation, drain, swimming pool or tank for
        the storage of any solid, liquid or gaseous matter;

   “Chief Executive” means the Chief Executive of the Authority;

   “Commissioner of Building Control” means the Commissioner
      of Building Control appointed under section 3 of the Building
      Control Act 1989;

   “competent authority” means any person who is appointed under
      section 5 of the Planning Act 1998 for the purposes of Part 3
      of that Act;

   “dwelling house” includes a building or tenement wholly or
      principally used, constructed or adapted for use for human
      habitation;

   “footway” includes any footpath, verandah‑way, open or
      covered walkway, pedestrian mall, plaza, square, and other
      related structures and facilities;

   “holding” means any piece or parcel of land held or possessed
      under an instrument of title, capable of being registered under
      the Registration of Deeds Act 1988, or where applicable
      under the Land Titles Act 1993, relating exclusively thereto;

   “house” includes any dwelling house, warehouse, office, shop,
      school and any other building in which persons are
      employed;

   “key structural elements” means culverts, retaining walls,
      bridges and such other parts of a street which are essential
      for the stability or safety of the street;

   “occupier”, in relation to any premises, means the person in
      occupation of the premises or having the charge,

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     6

          management or control thereof either on the person’s own
          account or as agent of another person, but does not include a
          lodger;

“outsourced enforcement officer”, in relation to any provision of
   this Act or regulations made under this Act, means an
   individual who —

          (a) is appointed under section 11 of the Land Transport
               Authority of Singapore Act 1995;

          (b) is authorised by or under that Act to exercise any
               powers under any provision of this Act or regulations
               made under this Act, as the case may be; and

          (c) is acting within that authorisation;

“owner”, in relation to any premises, means the person for the
   time being receiving the rent of the premises whether on the
   person’s own account or as agent or trustee for any other
   person or as receiver or who would receive the rent if the
   premises were let to a tenant, and includes the person whose
   name is entered in the Valuation List prepared under
   section 10 of the Property Tax Act 1960;

“premises” includes buildings, lands, easements and
   hereditaments of any tenure;

“private footway” means any footway that is not vested in the
   Government and that —

          (a) is intended pursuant to a planning or conservation
               permission granted by the competent authority under
               the Planning Act 1998 to be used mainly for the
               movement or passage of people on foot, and is used
               or intended to be used —

          (i) as a link either underground or at the second or
              upper storey level between 2 developments
              across their common boundary;

          (ii) as a link either underground or at the second or
               upper storey level between a development and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
7  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

   a station of the rapid transit system, a bus
   terminal or a bus interchange; or

   (iii) as a link over or underneath a public street
         between 2 developments or parts of the same
         development;

   (b) is connected to a station of the rapid transit system, a
        bus terminal or a bus interchange and is used or
        intended to be used as a means of access between that
        station, bus terminal or bus interchange and a public
        street;

   (c) is on a bridge or underpass directly connected to and
       is over or underneath a public street; or

   (d) is located in a single holding and fronting, adjoining
        or abutting a public street;

   “private street” means any street not being a public street;

   “public bridge” means a bridge which carries a public street;

   “public street” means any street over which the public has a right
      of way and which has become vested in the Government
      under this Act or the repealed Act, or in any other manner;

   “repealed Act” means the repealed Local Government
      Integration Act (Cap. 166, 1985 Revised Edition);

   “road related facility” includes any traffic sign, directional sign,
      street name sign, traffic light, bus shelter, place for the
      parking of bicycles, power-assisted bicycles or personal
      mobility devices, railing, lighting apparatus and any optical,
      electronic, communication, monitoring or computerised
      equipment necessary for the control and management of
      traffic, and any other road related structure and facility
      maintained by the Authority;

   “road structure” includes any bridge, underpass, tunnel, earth
      retaining wall and ancillary buildings;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     8

“street” includes —

          (a) any road, bridge, underpass, tunnel, square, path,
               footway or passage, whether a thoroughfare or not,
               over which the public has a right of way; and

          (b) any road, path, footway or passage, open court or
               open alley, used or intended to be used as a means of
               access to 2 or more holdings, whether the public has a
               right of way thereover or not,

          and all channels, drains, ditches and reserves that are deemed
          to be part of the street;

“street works” includes works of levelling, paving, metalling,
   flagging, kerbing, channelling, draining, lighting, laying of
   cables and mains and other utility services and otherwise the
   making good of a street or part of the street;

“tunnel” means a tunnel which carries a public street or utilities;

“utilities” includes water pipes, gas pipes, sewer pipes, drainage
   facilities, electricity cables, telecommunication cables and
   any other pipes, cables and their related apparatuses;

“utility works” includes works of —

          (a) breaking up or opening a street for the laying,
               repairing, adjusting, altering or removing of
               utilities or for the examining of subsoil condition or
               existing utilities; and

          (b) tunnelling, boring under a street or any other
               construction method which does not require the
               opening up of a street.

                                                                    [3/98; 11/2003; 3/2017; 38/2018]

Exemption

 3. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any area or
place from the operation of this Act or any provision thereof.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
9  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

Authority to manage, maintain and repair public streets and
administer this Act

 4.—(1) The Authority is responsible for the management,
maintenance and repair of all public streets, including the footways
and road related facilities thereof (but not channels, drains, ditches
and reserves abutting a street), and for the general administration of
this Act.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (2) The Authority may, subject to such conditions or restrictions as
it thinks fit, appoint public officers and officers employed by other
statutory bodies to carry out any of its powers, functions and duties
under this Act.

                                    PART 2

                             PUBLIC STREETS

Power to construct and improve streets

 5.—(1) The Authority, with the Minister’s approval, may —

       (a) construct new streets;

       (b) turn, divert, expunge or stop up any public street;

       (c) widen, open or otherwise improve any street; and

       (d) build toll gates, substations, control centres and other road
            related facilities.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), the Minister’s approval is not required if
the works to be carried out are confined within the existing width of
any public street.

 (3) The exercise of any power under this Act for a purpose in
subsection (1) is subject to Part 2 of the Active Mobility Act 2017 if
the public street is or is to be a public path under that Act.

                                                                                                             [3/2017]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     10

Public streets and bridges vested in Government

 6. All public streets, public surface and storm water drains, public
bridges, underpasses and tunnels and the road pavements and road
related facilities thereon, are vested in the Government.

Power to enter State land to construct and maintain road
structures and road related facilities

 7. For the purpose of constructing and maintaining the road
structures and road related facilities in, under or over any State
land, the Authority or any person authorised by the Authority may, at
any reasonable time, enter upon any State land within or adjoining the
street reserve and do all things as are reasonably necessary for the
construction and maintenance of the road structures and road related
facilities.

Power to order stoppage of activity causing damage to public
street

 8.—(1) Where the Authority is of the opinion that the carrying out
of any activity on any land adjoining a public street has caused or is
likely to cause the public street or any part thereof to be in a
dangerous or defective condition, the Authority or any person
authorised by the Authority may —

       (a) by notice require the person who carried out or who is
            carrying out the activity to repair the public street at the
            person’s own expense within such time as may be specified
            in the notice;

       (b) repair and make good the damage done or cause remedial
            action of a preventive nature to be effected, and all costs
            and expenses arising therefrom must be paid to the
            Authority by the owner of the land or person who
            carried out the activity;

       (c) by notice require the person carrying out the activity —

               (i) to stop carrying out the activity until the person has
                   deposited with the Authority any sum that may be
                   required for causing the public street to be properly
                   repaired; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
11  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

    (ii) to comply with any conditions that the Authority
         may think fit to impose for the person to continue the
         activity; or

    (d) where it is in the opinion of the Authority necessary or
         expedient that action should be taken to procure the
         immediate stoppage of the activity, enter upon the land on
         which the activity is being carried out and order the person
         carrying out the activity to forthwith stop carrying out the
         activity.

 (2) If the person who is liable to pay costs and expenses to the
Authority under subsection (1)(b) is dissatisfied with the amount or
apportionment thereof, the person may appeal to the Minister whose
decision is final.

 (3) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with a notice
served on the person or an order given to the person under
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

    (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
         term not exceeding 12 months or to both;

    (b) to a further fine not exceeding $500 for every day during
         which the notice was not complied with; and

    (c) to a further fine not exceeding $500 for every day during
        which the contravention of subsection (1) continues after
        conviction.

 (4) The certificate of the Authority stating that it is of the opinion
that the person named in the certificate is responsible for causing a
public street or part thereof to be in a dangerous or defective
condition is conclusive evidence for the purpose of any prosecution
under this section.

 (5) In this section, “activity” includes any excavation or
construction works.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     12

Carrying out of engineering works within road structure safety
zone

 8A.—(1) A person must not carry out any engineering works within
the road structure safety zone unless the person has obtained the prior
approval of the Authority.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (2) An application to the Authority for its approval under
subsection (1) —

(a) must be made in writing and must be accompanied by an
     engineering plan, showing the location affected by the
     engineering works to be carried out; and

       (b) may be granted by the Authority subject to such conditions
            as the Authority thinks fit.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $100 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (4) In this section —

“engineering plan”, in relation to engineering works, includes
   detailed plans of the engineering works, monitoring
   equipment and instrumentation and other relevant
   information proposed for use to monitor the structural
   integrity of the road structure;

“engineering works” means any kind of construction work that
   is likely to affect the structural integrity of any road structure
   and the safety of its operations, and includes —

          (a) excavations for basements and other building
               structures under land;

          (b) installations of foundation piles, sheet piles, bore
               holes, wells, ground anchors and tie backs; and

          (c) the operation of any crane, hoist or heavy equipment;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
13  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

    “road structure safety zone” means that part of the land or area
       which is 20 metres from the outermost edge of any part of a
       road structure.

                                                              [11/2003]

Power to enter private land to construct new streets

 9.—(1) The Authority or any person authorised by the Authority
has the right to enter upon and take possession of any land or part
thereof not being State land —

       (a) to construct or improve any street; and

       (b) to construct, install, improve or remove any road structure
            or road related facility,

in, under or over the land, and to do all things as are reasonably
necessary in connection therewith.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (2) The Authority or any person authorised by the Authority must
not exercise the right conferred by subsection (1) unless the Authority
has given at least 2 months’ notice of its intention to exercise the right
conferred by that subsection to every owner and occupier of the land.

                                                                                                           [12/2015]

 (3) A notice mentioned in subsection (2) must —

       (a) give a brief description of the works which the Authority
            proposes to carry out on the land;

       (b) state the estimated period (if any) during which the land
            will be occupied or possessed;

       (c) describe the area or extent of land needed for the carrying
            out of the works mentioned in paragraph (a); and

       (d) state that any person entitled to compensation in
            connection with the exercise by the Authority of its right
            under this section may serve a written claim on the
            Authority in accordance with the provisions of the Land
            Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     14

 (4) The ownership of anything is not altered by reason only that it is
placed in, under or over any land in exercise of a right conferred upon
the Authority by this section.

 (5) Any person who refuses to give access to, or obstructs, hinders
or delays, an agent or employee of the Authority at any time in the
exercise of the agent’s or employee’s authority shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$1,000.

                                                                                                           [12/2015]

 (6) In this section, a reference to entry on land includes the digging
or boring of a tunnel under the land and the erection of any structure
on, under or over the land.

Creation of rights in, under or over land

 10.—(1) From the date of publication in the Gazette of a notice of
creation of a right under this section, the Authority or any person
authorised by the Authority may, at any reasonable time and for the
purposes of and incidental to the maintenance of any street or the
operation or maintenance of any road structure or road related facility,
enter upon such land within the area as described in the notice, not
being State land, and exercise such permanent rights in, under or over
such land or such rights of temporary occupation of the land as may
be specified in the notice.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (2) A notice of creation of a right under this section must —

       (a) be made by the Authority;

       (b) describe the right in, under or over the land or the right of
            temporary occupation and the area of land subject to such
            right; and

       (c) state particulars of the places and times at which a copy of
            a plan of the area of the land subject to such right may be
            inspected.

 (3) Any right referred to in a notice of creation of a right under this
section is limited to a right conferring such rights and powers as are
necessary or convenient for the maintenance of the street or the
operation or maintenance of the road structure or road related facility

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
15  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

(as the case may be) and for all purposes connected with or incidental
to that operation or maintenance.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

Power to tap utilities for operation and maintenance of road
related facility

 10A.—(1) Where the Authority or any person authorised by the
Authority (called in this section the authorised person) has
constructed, installed or improved any road related facility in,
under or over any State land under section 7, the Authority or
authorised person, after giving 21 days’ notice to the occupier of, or
to every person having any estate, right, share or interest in, any land
adjoining such State land, may install such meter boards, electrical
meters and other accessories as may be necessary on the land and tap
utilities for the purpose of and incidental to the operation and
maintenance of the road related facility.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (2) Where the Authority or an authorised person has constructed,
installed or improved any road related facility in, under or over any
land or part thereof not being State land under section 9, the Authority
or authorised person, after giving 21 days’ notice to the occupier of,
or to every person having any estate, right, share or interest in, such
land, may install such meter boards, electrical meters and other
accessories as may be necessary on the land and tap utilities for the
purpose of and incidental to the operation and maintenance of the
road related facility.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (3) Every meter board, electrical meter and other accessory
installed under this section must comply with such standards as are
determined by the Energy Market Authority of Singapore established
under section 3 of the Energy Market Authority of Singapore
Act 2001.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (4) The Authority must pay the electricity supplier such amount as
may be indicated on the electrical meters installed under this section.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (5) Despite subsections (1), (2) and (4), if no meter board, electrical
meter or other accessory is installed on any land or part thereof that is

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     16

not State land, the Authority must, on a monthly basis, pay the
electricity supplier such amount as is determined in accordance with
the formula P x R x 24 hours x 30 days; where —

(a) P is the power rating of equipment; and

(b) R is the rate from the electricity supplier.

                                                                    [11/2003]

 (6) Any person who is dissatisfied with the decision of the
Authority under subsection (1) or (2) may, within 14 days of the
notice, appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (7) In this section, “electricity supplier” means a person who is
licensed to supply electricity under any written law for the time being
relating to the supply of electricity.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

Owners who suffer substantial impairment in rights in land
may require their land to be acquired

 11.—(1) The owner of any land temporary possession of which is
or has been taken in accordance with section 9 may, by written notice
given to the Authority, request the Government to acquire under the
Land Acquisition Act 1966 —

       (a) the land; and

       (b) any other land (if any) of the owner related to the land in
            paragraph (a),

if the owner considers that the owner suffers substantial impairment
of the owner’s rights in the lands in paragraphs (a) and (b) because of
the taking of that temporary possession.

                                                                                                           [12/2015]

 (2) If there is more than one owner of the land concerned, the notice
under this section must be given by all the owners.

                                                                                                           [12/2015]

 (3) Any notice under this section is irrevocable once given to the
Authority.

                                                                                                           [12/2015]

 (4) For the purposes of this section and section 11A, land (called A
land) is related to other land temporary possession of which is or has

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
17  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

been taken in accordance with section 9 (called in this section and
section 11A the temporarily occupied land) if the A land is the
remainder of a parcel of land part of which is the temporarily
occupied land.

                                                                                                           [12/2015]

 (5) In this section and section 11A —

    “owner”, in relation to any land, means —

    (a) a person who has the fee simple estate in the land;

    (b) a person who is the grantee or lessee under a State
         title for the land;

    (c) a person who has become entitled to exercise a power
        of sale of the land; or

    (d) a person in occupation of the land under a tenancy the
         term of which exceeds 7 years;

    “parcel of land” means the whole area of land that —

    (a) is the subject of a separate certificate of title
         registered under the Land Titles Act 1993; or

    (b) is a lot in a lawful division of land and capable of
         being held separately by any owner,

    and where a single building is erected on 2 or more such
    adjoining lands or lots mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b),
    includes the area comprised in those lands or lots, as the case
    may be.

                                                                                                 [12/2015]

Owner-initiated acquisition

 11A.—(1) Upon the Authority receiving a notice under
section 11(1) in relation to any temporarily occupied land, and any
other land related to the temporarily occupied land, the President is to
proceed under the Land Acquisition Act 1966 to acquire that land as
if those lands were the subject of a notice under section 49 of that Act.

                                                                                                           [12/2015]

 (2) The provisions of sections 49 and 49A of the Land Acquisition
Act 1966 apply (so far as relevant) to any land that is the subject of a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     18

notice under section 11(1) with the following exceptions,
modifications and adaptations:

(a) any reference in those sections to any land that is the
     subject of a notice under section 49(1) of the Land
     Acquisition Act 1966 is to be read as a reference to the land
     that is the subject of a notice under section 11(1);

(b) any reference in those sections to land temporary
     possession of which is or has been taken under
     section 42 of the Land Acquisition Act 1966 is to be
     read as a reference to any land temporary possession of
     which is or has been taken in accordance with section 9;

          (c) any reference in those sections to an owner of land is to be
              read as a reference to an owner of land mentioned in
              section 11;

(d) any reference in section 49A of the Land Acquisition
     Act 1966 to a claim period for any land temporary
     possession of which is or has been taken in accordance
     with a direction under section 42 of the Land Acquisition
     Act 1966 is to be read as a reference to one year starting
     from either of the following dates:

          (i) the date of the notice under section 9 relating to that
              land;

          (ii) the date of the expiry of the term of temporary
               possession in a notice under section 9 for the
               temporary occupation and use of the land, or the
               date the land is returned to the owner if earlier;

       (e) such other exceptions, modifications and adaptations as the
            differences between them necessarily require.

                                                                                                           [12/2015]

 (3) All compensation for the acquisition under the Land
Acquisition Act 1966 of any land that is the subject of a notice
under section 11(1) is to be paid out of the funds of the Authority.

                                                                                                           [12/2015]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
19  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

Power to enter land for inspection and survey, etc.

 12.—(1) The Authority or any person authorised by the Authority
may enter any land or building situate wholly or partly within the
street reserve or wholly or partly within 100 metres thereof in order to
carry out —

    (a) any inspection or survey which is reasonably necessary to
         ascertain the condition of the land or building prior to or
         during the construction or improvement of any street or the
         construction, installation, improvement or removal of any
         road structure or road related facility (as the case may be)
         and to carry out all reasonably necessary work of a
         preventive or remedial nature; and

    (b) any inspection or maintenance of —

    (i) any street which has been constructed or improved;
        or

    (ii) any road structure or road related facility which has
         been constructed, installed or improved,

       (b) by the Authority on, under or over the land or building and
            to carry out any work and do all things necessary for the
            purpose of maintaining the street or maintaining or
            operating the road structure or road related facility, as
            the case may be.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (2) A person must not, for the purposes of subsection (1), enter any
land or building which is occupied without giving the owner and the
occupier at least 7 days’ notice of the person’s intention to do so
unless —

    (a) the Authority is of the opinion that an emergency exists
         which necessitates immediate entry; or

    (b) the entry is required only for the purpose of an inspection
         or a survey.

(3) A notice of entry mentioned in subsection (2) —

    (a) must describe the purpose of the entry and the nature of any
         work to be carried out; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     20

(b) is deemed to be given to and received by an owner or
     occupier if the notice is affixed to a conspicuous part of the
     land or building to be entered.

 (4) In subsection (1), “work of a preventive or remedial nature”
means the underpinning or strengthening of any land or building and
any other work thereon that is intended to render it reasonably safe or
to repair or detect damage caused in the course of the construction or
improvement of any street or the construction, installation,
improvement or removal of any road structure or road related
facility, as the case may be.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (5) The decision of the Authority that any work is of a preventive or
remedial nature or that such work or any inspection or survey is
reasonably necessary is final.

 (6) The Authority or any person authorised by the Authority may as
the occasion requires enter and re‑inspect and survey any land or
building in respect of which any of the powers contained in
subsection (1) has been exercised and may, in relation to that land
or building, exercise those powers as often as the occasion may
require.

 (7) Any person authorised under this section to enter upon any land
or building must, if so required by the owner or occupier, produce
evidence of the person’s authority before so entering it.

Removal of projections or obstructions

 13.—(1) The Authority may give notice to the owner of any land or
building in the street reserve requiring that owner to remove any
object or structure described in the notice which is erected on or
attached to, or projects from, the land or building if in the opinion of
the Authority the removal of the object or structure is required for the
purposes of the construction of any street.

 (2) A notice under subsection (1) may be given to the owner of any
land or building and is deemed to have been received by the owner if
it is affixed to some conspicuous part of the land or building to or
from which the object or structure is erected or attached or projects
from.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
21  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

(3) A notice under subsection (1) must —

    (a) describe the object or structure to be removed;

    (b) stipulate the period within which the work of removal must
         be carried out;

    (c) be given to the owner of the land or building not later than
        28 days before the commencement of that period; and

    (d) state that any person entitled to compensation in
         connection with the removal of the object or structure
         may serve a written claim upon the Authority in
         accordance with the provisions of the Land Transport
         Authority of Singapore Act 1995.

 (4) If the owner of the land or building does not comply with a
notice given to the owner under subsection (1), any person authorised
in that behalf by the Authority may enter the land or building,
together with such other persons as the person authorised thinks
necessary, and remove the object or structure described in the notice
or cause it to be removed by those other persons.

Declaration to vest street reserves in Government

 14.—(1) Where the Authority intends to construct any new street or
to widen, open, enlarge or otherwise improve any existing street, the
Authority may —

       (a) prepare a plan incorporating all premises set aside as street
            reserves pursuant to any development proposal approved
            by the competent authority; and

       (b) by an instrument in the form approved by the Registrar of
            Titles or the Registrar of Deeds (as the case may be)
            declare that the street reserves are to vest in the
            Government.

 (2) Any plan prepared by the Authority under this section must
comply with the requirements of the Land Titles Act 1993 in respect
of registered land and of the Registration of Deeds Act 1988 in
respect of other lands and must show thereon the premises which will
vest in the Government.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     22

 (3) The declaration referred to in subsection (1) must be published
in the Gazette.

 (4) Where any street reserve that has become vested in the
Government under this section comprises premises included in
separate lots already set aside as part of a street reserve, the
declaration must be registered against those lots —

(a) under the Land Titles Act 1993 in respect of registered
     land; and

(b) under the Registration of Deeds Act 1988 in respect of
     other lands.

 (5) Where any street reserve that has become vested in the
Government under this section comprises premises included in an
existing lot or existing lots —

(a) the premises forming the street must be excised from the
     existing lot or lots; and

(b) the declaration must be registered in respect of the excised
     portions under the Land Titles Act 1993 in respect of
     registered land and under the Registration of Deeds
     Act 1988 in respect of other lands.

 (6) Upon such registration, the premises forming the street reserve
vest in the Government free from all encumbrances and where the
premises are held under a statutory land grant, such vesting is not to
be deemed to create a subdivision within the meaning of the State
Lands Act 1920.

 (7) No compensation is payable for any premises vested in the
Government pursuant to this section.

 (8) When the Authority has pursuant to this section registered any
instrument, the Authority may take possession of the premises
described in the instrument and may proceed to demolish and remove
any building or portion of any building forming part thereof.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
23  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

Authority may recover costs and expenses of new street or of
widening, opening, etc., of public street

 15.—(1) Where the Authority intends to construct any new street or
to widen, open, enlarge or otherwise improve any existing street, the
Authority may recover the costs and expenses of acquiring the land
for, and of —

    (a) constructing the new street; or

    (b) widening, opening, enlarging or otherwise improving the
         existing public street,

as the case may be, from the owners of the premises —

    (c) fronting, adjoining or abutting on the new street or public
        street, as the case may be; and

    (d) which do not front, adjoin or abut on the new street or
         public street (as the case may be) but access to which will
         be obtained through the new street or the widened, opened,
         enlarged or otherwise improved public street by means of
         another street or backlane, and which, in the opinion of the
         Authority, will benefit by the construction of the new street
         or the widening, opening, enlarging or otherwise
         improving of the public street.

 (2) The Authority must prepare an estimate of the costs and
expenses of the street works to be apportioned among —

    (a) the owners of the premises abutting on the new street or
         public street; and

    (b) the owners of such other premises (if any) as the Authority
         may, in accordance with subsection (1)(d), decide to
         include in the apportionment,

and must serve a notice of its decision in writing to proceed with the
street works and to recover the costs and expenses thereof upon each
such owner, and such costs and expenses must be paid by each such
owner within such period as may be specified in the notice and in
such proportions as are settled by the Authority.

 (3) If the owner of any such premises is dissatisfied with the
Authority’s apportionment of costs and expenses, that owner may,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     24

within 14 days from the date of service of the notice, appeal to the
Minister whose decision is final.

 (4) The apportionment of costs and expenses of street works among
the owners of the premises fronting, adjoining or abutting on the
street in respect of which the costs and expenses are to be incurred
must, unless the Authority otherwise decides, be apportioned
according to the frontage of the respective premises; but the
Authority may, if it thinks fit, decide that in settling the
apportionment regard must be had to the following considerations:

(a) the degree of benefit accruing to any premises by the
     construction of the new street; and

(b) the amount and value of any street works already executed
     by the owners or occupiers of any such premises,

and the Authority may, if it thinks fit —

          (c) include in the apportionment any premises which do not
              front, adjoin or abut on the street but access to which is
              obtained from the street through another street or backlane
              and which, in its opinion, will be benefited by the street
              works; and

(d) fix the sum or portion to be charged against any such
     premises accordingly.

 (5) The Authority may, in any estimate of the costs and expenses of
street works, include such reasonable charges in respect of surveys,
superintendence and publication and service of notices as it may from
time to time determine.

 (6) The Authority may, if it thinks fit, pay the whole or any part of
the costs and expenses of the street works, and the payment of part of
the costs and expenses by the Authority may be made in such a
manner as wholly to relieve the owner of any particular premises to
the exclusion of other owners or to relieve that owner to a greater
extent than other owners.

 (7) Where the street works have been completed by the Authority
and the costs and expenses thereof ascertained —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
25  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

    (a) the Authority must cause a final apportionment of the costs
         and expenses of the street works to be made by dividing the
         costs and expenses in the same proportions as those in
         which the estimated costs and expenses were divided in the
         provisional apportionment;

    (b) that final apportionment is conclusive for all purposes;

    (c) notice of the final apportionment must be served upon the
        owners of the premises affected thereby; and

    (d) the sums apportioned thereby are recoverable in the
         manner provided in section 43.

 (8) If the costs and expenses incurred in executing the street works
as shown in the final apportionment exceed the estimated costs and
expenses, the owner may, within 14 days from the date of service of
the notice, appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (9) For the purposes of this section, the construction of a new street
may include the widening, opening, enlarging or otherwise
improving of any part or parts of any existing private street for the
purpose of constructing the new street.

Settling of apportionment of costs and expenses

 16.—(1) Where the Authority intends to make up, pave, widen,
open, enlarge or otherwise improve any existing private street, the
Authority may recover the costs and expenses of acquiring the land
for, and of making up, widening, opening, enlarging or otherwise
improving the private street (as the case may be) from the owners of
the premises —

       (a) fronting, adjoining or abutting on the private street; and

       (b) which do not front, adjoin or abut on the private street, but
            access to which will be obtained through the private street
            or the widened, opened, enlarged or otherwise improved
            private street by means of another street or backlane, and
            which, in the opinion of the Authority, will benefit by the
            making up, widening, opening, enlarging or otherwise
            improving of the private street.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     26

(2) The Authority must cause to be prepared —

(a) plans and specifications of the street works;

(b) an estimate of the costs and expenses thereof; and

          (c) a provisional apportionment of the estimated costs and
              expenses among the owners mentioned in subsection (1)
              and the owners of such other premises (if any) as the
              Authority may, in accordance with subsection (3), decide
              to include in the provisional apportionment,

and must serve a notice of its decision in writing upon each such
owner, requiring that owner to execute to the satisfaction and in
accordance with the directions in writing of the Authority, such street
works within such period as may be specified in the notice
commencing from the date of the service of the notice.

 (3) In such a provisional apportionment of the costs and expenses of
the street works, the apportionment of costs and expenses among the
owners of the premises fronting, adjoining or abutting on the private
street or part thereof in respect of which the costs and expenses are to
be incurred must, unless the Authority otherwise decides, be
apportioned according to the frontage of the respective premises;
but the Authority may, if it thinks fit, decide that in settling the
apportionment regard must be had to the following considerations:

(a) the degree of benefit to be derived by any premises from
     the street works;

(b) the amount and value of any street works already executed
     by the owners or occupiers of any such premises,

and the Authority may, if it thinks fit —

          (c) include any premises which do not front, adjoin or abut on
              the private street or part thereof but access to which is
              obtained from the street through another street or backlane
              and which, in its opinion, will be benefited by the street
              works; and

(d) fix the sum or proportion to be charged against any such
     premises accordingly.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
27  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

 (4) The Authority may, in any estimate of the costs and expenses of
street works, include such reasonable charges in respect of surveys,
superintendence and publication and service of notices as it may from
time to time determine.

 (5) During one month from the date of the service of the notice, the
plans, specifications, estimate and provisional apportionment
prepared under subsection (2) must be open to inspection by or on
behalf of —

    (a) any person upon whom the notice has been served; or

    (b) the owner of any building or holding listed in the Valuation
         List of the Comptroller of Property Tax for the time being
         in force,

at the office of the Authority, and that notice must state —

    (c) that the aforesaid plans, specifications, estimate and
        provisional apportionment are so open to inspection as
        aforesaid during the usual office hours until a day, at least
        one month from the date of the service of the notice, upon
        which the Authority will consider any objection to the
        proposed street works or to the plans, specifications,
        estimate and provisional apportionment or any amendment
        thereof; and

    (d) that in default of compliance with the requirements of the
         Authority as stated in the notice, the Authority will itself
         cause the street works to be executed.

 (6) The Authority may, if it thinks fit, pay the whole or any part of
the costs and expenses of the street works and if it decides so to pay
any part of those costs and expenses —

    (a) the provisional apportionment must indicate the proportion
         of the costs and expenses which the Authority has decided
         to pay; and

    (b) the payment of part of the costs and expenses by the
         Authority may be made in such a manner as wholly to
         relieve the owner of any particular premises served with a
         notice under this section to the exclusion of other owners

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     28

          or to relieve that owner to a greater extent than other
          owners.

 (7) The Authority may from time to time amend the plans,
specifications, estimate and provisional apportionment of any street
works, but if by reason of such an amendment the estimate in respect
of any private street or part thereof is increased or the provisional
apportionment of the costs and expenses of the street works on any
premises is increased —

(a) the notices previously served must be withdrawn in the
     prescribed manner by the Authority;

(b) fresh notices based on the amended plans, specifications,
     estimate and provisional apportionment or any of them
     must be served by the Authority in accordance with
     subsection (5); and

          (c) the amended plans, specifications, estimate and
              provisional apportionment must be similarly open to
              inspection.

 (8) During the period of one month mentioned in subsection (5), the
owner of any premises shown in the provisional apportionment or
amended provisional apportionment as liable to be charged with any
part of the costs and expenses of executing the street works may, by
written notice duly served upon the Authority, object to the execution
of the proposed street works and to the plans, specifications, estimate
and provisional apportionment or any or more of them or to any
amendment thereof pursuant to subsection (7) on any one or more of
the following grounds:

(a) that the alleged private street or part thereof is not or does
     not form part of a street within the meaning of this Act;

(b) that the alleged private street or part thereof is (in whole or
     in part) a public street;

          (c) that there has been some material informality, defect or
              error in or in respect of the decision, notice, plans,
              specifications, estimate and provisional apportionment or
              amendment thereof;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
29  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

    (d) that the proposed street works are insufficient or
         unreasonable or the costs and expenses as estimated are
         excessive;

    (e) that any premises ought to be excluded from or listed in the
        provisional apportionment;

    (f) that the provisional apportionment or amended provisional
        apportionment is incorrect in respect of —

    (i) some matter of fact to be specified in the objection;
        or

    (ii) where the provisional apportionment is made with
         regard to other considerations than frontage as
         provided in this section, the degree of benefit
         derived by any person or the amount and value of
         any street works already executed by the owner or
         occupier of any premises.

 (9) Objections may be made in writing and in accordance with the
prescribed procedure and after valid objections have been inquired
into and the persons making them have been allowed an opportunity
of being heard in accordance with the prescribed procedure, the
Authority may confirm or amend the plans, specifications, estimate
and provisional apportionment.

 (10) The plans, specifications, estimate and provisional
apportionment so confirmed or amended must be open to
inspection by the persons referred to in subsection (5) during the
usual office hours at the office of the Authority and written notice
stating that they are open to inspection must forthwith be published in
the Gazette and in such other manner as the Authority may determine.

 (11) Any person who is dissatisfied with the decision of the
Authority may, within 14 days of the publication of the notice under
subsection (10), appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

(12) If such street works —

    (a) are not commenced within 14 days from the date of such
         confirmation or amendment or the date on which the plans,
         specifications, estimate and provisional apportionment are

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     30

          confirmed or amended by the Minister, as the case may be;
          or

(b) having been commenced are thereafter suspended or are
     not completed within the period specified in the notice
     mentioned in subsection (2),

the Authority may, if it thinks fit, cause them to be executed and
completed.

 (13) Where the street works have been completed by the Authority
and the costs and expenses thereof as incurred by the Authority
ascertained —

(a) the Authority must cause a final apportionment of the costs
     and expenses of the street works to be made by dividing the
     costs and expenses in the same proportions as those in
     which the estimated costs and expenses were divided in the
     provisional apportionment or amended provisional
     apportionment, as the case may be;

(b) that final apportionment is conclusive for all purposes;

          (c) notice of the final apportionment must be served upon the
              owners of the premises affected thereby; and

(d) the sums apportioned thereby are recoverable in the
     manner provided in section 43.

 (14) If the costs and expenses incurred in executing the street works
as shown in the final apportionment exceed the estimated costs and
expenses, the owner may, within 14 days from the date of the notice,
appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (15) Where street works have been executed to the satisfaction of
the Authority under this Part in respect of a private street or part
thereof, then on the requisition —

(a) in the case of street works executed under this section — of
     the several owners of such of the premises listed in the final
     apportionment as together have an annual value of more
     than 50% of the total annual value of the premises so listed;
     or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
31  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

    (b) in any other case — of the several owners of such of the
         premises fronting, adjoining or abutting on the private
         street or part thereof as together have an annual value of
         more than 50% of the total annual value of the premises
         fronting, adjoining or abutting on the private street or part
         thereof, as the case may be,

demanding that the private street or part thereof be declared a public
street, the Authority must, after consultation with the Minister,
declare it to be a public street and the private street or part thereof
thereupon becomes a public street and vests in the Government.

 (16) The declaration referred to in subsection (15) must be
published in the Gazette.

 (17) Where a private street or part thereof that is declared to be a
public street and to be vested in the Government comprises separate
lots already set aside as part of a street, the declaration must be
registered against those lots —

    (a) under the Land Titles Act 1993 in respect of registered
         land; and

    (b) under the Registration of Deeds Act 1988 in respect of
         other land.

 (18) Where a private street or part thereof that is declared to be a
public street and to be vested in the Government comprises premises
included in an existing lot or existing lots —

    (a) the premises forming the street or part thereof must be
         excised from the existing lot or lots; and

    (b) the declaration must be registered against the excised
         portions under the Land Titles Act 1993 in respect of
         registered land and under the Registration of Deeds
         Act 1988 in respect of other land.

 (19) Upon such registration, the premises forming the street vest in
the Government free from all encumbrances and where the premises
are held under a statutory land grant such vesting is not deemed to
create a subdivision within the meaning of the State Lands Act 1920.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     32

Powers to control works on public streets

 17.—(1) A person must not carry out any works on any public
street, public bridge or on any street which is to be declared public
unless the person has obtained the prior approval of the Authority.

 (2) An application to the Authority for its approval under
subsection (1) —

(a) must be made in writing and must be accompanied by a
     plan in duplicate, showing the location affected by the
     works; and

(b) may be granted by the Authority subject to such directions
     as the Authority may give under subsection (3).

 (3) The Authority may give written directions to the person
submitting the application with regard to all or any of the
following particulars:

(a) compliance with this Act and any regulations made under
     this Act;

(b) the location and extent of the work and other related
     apparatus to be laid or erected;

          (c) the provision of footways and diversion roads and the size
              and specifications of such footways and diversion roads;

(d) the design and construction method;

          (e) the period of the works;

          (f) the provision of temporary traffic signs and other road
              related facilities;

(g) the reinstatement of any affected public street or public
     bridge or any street which is to be declared public.

 (4) Where in the opinion of the Authority any works have been
carried out in contravention of the provisions of this Act or any
regulations made under this Act, the Authority may by written order
require —

(a) the cessation of the works;

(b) the removal of any installations;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
33  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

    (c) the reinstatement of any affected public street or public
        bridge or any street which is to be declared public; or

    (d) such work or alteration to be carried out as may be
         necessary to cause the works to comply with the provisions
         of this section,

and in every case, the order must specify —

    (e) the manner in which the removal, work or alteration
        specified in the order is to be carried out;

    (f) the time within which the removal, work or alteration must
        commence;

    (g) the time within which the removal, work or alteration must
         be completed; and

    (h) that the removal, work or alteration must be carried out
         with due diligence to the satisfaction of the Authority.

 (5) An order made under subsection (4) must be served on the
owner of the works and the person carrying out the works.

 (6) If an order made under subsection (4) is not complied with, the
Authority may —

    (a) demolish, remove or alter the works or cause the works to
         be demolished, removed or altered, or take such other steps
         as appear to the Authority to be necessary or expedient;
         and

    (b) recover all costs and expenses reasonably incurred by the
         Authority in the exercise of its powers under this section
         from the person in default.

 (7) Neither the Authority nor the Government shall be liable to
make good any damage caused to or any loss of goods or property as a
result of any work carried out under subsection (6).

 (8) Without prejudice to the rights of the Authority to exercise its
powers under subsection (6), if any person on whom an order made
under subsection (4) is served fails to comply with the order, that
person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a continuing

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     34

offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

 (9) The Authority may levy a charge on the person who carries out
works on public streets or public bridges or any street which is to be
declared public.

 (10) The charge must be determined in accordance with such rate
and method of calculation as may be prescribed.

 (11) The Authority may require the person who made the
application under subsection (1) to make a deposit before
commencing any work.

 (12) If the works are not executed to the satisfaction of the
Authority in any case where a deposit has been made under
subsection (11), the Authority may, at any time after the service of
a notice, execute or cause any works to be properly carried out and the
costs and expenses of any works executed or caused to be carried out
by the Authority are to be recovered from the deposit made under that
subsection.

                                    PART 3

                        Division 1 — Private streets

Private persons constructing new streets

 18.—(1) Every person who intends to construct any new street must
give written notice thereof to the Authority, accompanied by —

       (a) a plan submitted by a civil engineer who is registered as a
            professional engineer with a valid practising certificate
            under the provisions of the Professional Engineers
            Act 1991 showing the intended level and construction of
            the street and the level of the houses to be built on land
            abutting upon it and the proposed manner of draining it;

       (b) a statement whether the street is intended to be a carriage
            road or intended for foot traffic only;

       (c) a certificate by an accredited checker in respect of the plans
            relating to the structural elements of the street works

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
35  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

    stating that, to the best of the accredited checker’s
    knowledge and belief, the plans so checked do not show
    any inadequacy in the key structural elements of the street
    to be constructed or affected by street works carried out in
    accordance with those plans; and

    (d) such other documents as may be prescribed,

in order that the plan may be approved by the Authority subject to
compliance with such directions as may be given under
subsection (3).

 (2) The Authority must not approve the detailed plans of any new
street unless —

    (a) the competent authority has first given written permission
         for the use of the land for this purpose under the Planning
         Act 1998; or

       (b) the use of the land for this purpose has been authorised
            under section 21(6) of the Planning Act 1998.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (3) The Authority may give written directions to the person
submitting a plan for a new street with regard to any of the
following particulars:

    (a) compliance with this Act and any regulations made under
         this Act;

    (b) the line of the new street, so as to ensure that it forms a
         continuous street with any existing or proposed street;

    (c) the level, material and construction of the new street;

    (d) the provision of footways and the size, specification and
         gradient of such footways;

    (e) the provision along the length of the new street of
        intersecting streets or backlanes;

    (f) the width of the new street;

    (g) the width of any intersecting street or backlane, which
         must be of such width as the Authority may require;

    (h) the connection between the new street and other streets;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     36

          (i) the gradients, levels and mode of drainage of the new street
              and of any intersecting streets or backlanes;

          (j) the rounding of the corners of the new street;

          (k) the provision of culverts and the size, specification and
              gradient of such culverts;

          (l) the provision of street lighting;

(m) the planting of trees.

                                                                    [11/2003]

 (4) The person to whom any such written directions are so given
must amend the plan accordingly.

 (5) The person whose plan has been approved by the Authority and
each successor in title of that person, so far as the street lies in the land
acquired by that person, must lay out the new street and demarcate its
boundaries by such boundary stones or other marks as are considered
sufficient by the Authority to denote the length, width and alignment
of the street.

 (6) If the new street has not been laid out and demarcated within the
period of 6 months from the date when the plan was approved by the
Authority, the Authority or any officer authorised by the Authority
may enter upon the land and demarcate the boundaries of the new
street at the expense of the person whose plan has been approved or of
the person’s successor in title.

 (7) Any person who removes, defaces or injures any stone or mark
set to denote the length, width or alignment of such new street shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $2,000.

 (8) The person whose plan has been approved by the Authority or
the person’s successor in title so far as the street lies in the land
acquired by the successor must, if that person or that person’s
successor in title constructs the new street, construct it in accordance
with the plans approved by the Authority within such period as may
be specified in the approval.

 (9) The Authority may renew its approval under subsection (8) for
such period as it may consider necessary.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
37  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

(10) Where a person —

    (a) constructs any new street otherwise than in accordance
         with a plan approved by the Authority under this section;

    (b) erects any building on land abutting on a new street which
         has not been laid out in accordance with a plan so
         approved;

    (c) without the consent in writing of the Authority erects any
        building in such manner that any part thereof is within the
        area laid out as a street reserve for any street by the
        competent authority; or

    (d) constructs any culvert on the line of the new street drainage
         otherwise than in accordance with the plans and
         specifications approved by the Authority,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000, and the Authority may
make an order (which is deemed to be a mandatory order for the
purposes of section 35) against the offender requiring the offender to
execute any of the following works:

    (e) to alter the street;

    (f) to alter any building so built;

    (g) to remove any building so built;

    (h) to alter or remove any culvert so constructed.

 (11) Where any new street is stated to be intended for foot traffic
only, the Authority may impose such conditions as it thinks fit for
ensuring that the street is not used as a carriage road.

 (12) Any person who keeps open or uses such street in breach of
any condition imposed under subsection (11) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $100 for every day during or on which the offence
continues or is repeated.

 (13) A person must not erect or maintain or permit to be erected or
maintained any obstruction in any such street, and the Authority may,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     38

where any such obstruction exists, take down and remove the
obstruction.

(14) In this section, “new street” is deemed to include —

(a) the continuation of an existing street;

(b) the widening or alteration of any existing street; and

          (c) the adapting of a street made for foot traffic only for
              carriage traffic.

 (15) If the person giving a notice under subsection (1) is dissatisfied
with any requisition or disapproval by the Authority, the person may
appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (16) Subject to subsection (17), if the Authority does not, within
2 months from the delivery of a notice and the plan under
subsection (1) or of the date of the resubmission of the plan
amended pursuant to subsection (4) (as the case may be) approve the
plan, the plan is deemed to be approved unless the Authority has
previously disapproved it.

 (17) Nothing in subsection (16) is to be construed as exempting the
person submitting the plan from otherwise complying with the
provisions of this Act or any regulations made under this Act.

 (18) Where the plans of any street works or proposed street works
have been approved by the Authority and the person for whom the
plans are submitted intends to depart or deviate from the plans
approved, the person must apply to the Authority for approval of the
plans showing the proposed departure or deviation and such
application must be accompanied by —

(a) the latter plans; and

(b) a certificate by an accredited checker in respect of such of
     the latter plans relating to the structural elements of the
     street works or proposed street works stating that, to the
     best of the knowledge and belief of the accredited checker,
     those plans do not show any inadequacy in the key
     structural elements of the street works to be carried out or
     affected by street works carried out in accordance with
     those plans.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
39  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

 (19) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, by
notification in the Gazette authorise, either generally or in relation to
any specified type of development, the construction of new streets
subject to such conditions as may be specified in the notification.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (20) Any person who, being required by or by virtue of this Act or
any regulations made under this Act to make or produce to the
Authority any plan, declaration, certificate, report, record, notice or
other document, or who, for the purpose of obtaining any licence,
permit, waiver or approval from the Authority under this Act or any
regulations made under this Act or for the purpose of establishing any
fact relevant to the administration of this Act or any regulations made
under this Act —

    (a) makes or produces any plan, declaration, certificate, report,
         record, notice or other document which is false in a
         material particular; or

    (b) produces any plan, declaration, certificate, report, record,
         notice or other document which is false in a material
         particular, or which has not been made by the person by
         whom it purports to have been made, or which has been in
         any way altered or tampered with,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

Expiry of approval of plans

 19. All plans for a new street which were approved under section 19
of the repealed Act or under section 18 of this Act expire at the end of
such period as the Authority may specify and the Authority may
renew the approval for such period as it may consider necessary.

Determination of amount to be deposited or secured and date
for completion

 20.—(1) Every person must, before commencing any work for the
erection of any new building, submit an application in writing for the
determination of the amount (if any) to be deposited or secured to the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     40

satisfaction of the Authority for the execution of street works as
required under section 16 or 18.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (2) The Authority must —

(a) on an application being made under subsection (1); or

(b) where no such application has been made, after serving a
     notice on the person who is to be required to make the
     deposit or furnish the security,

by written order determine —

          (c) the amount (if any) that is required to be deposited or
              secured to the satisfaction of the Authority for the
              execution of street works; and

       (d) if a deposit or security is required, the date on or before
            which the street works must be completed.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (3) The Minister may by written order exempt a particular building
or class of buildings from subsection (1).

 (4) Where no deposit or security is required, the Authority must
issue a certificate to the person who made the application under
subsection (1) stating that no deposit or security is required to be
made or furnished for the execution of street works before the
commencement of building operations.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (5) The Authority must, in making an order under subsection (2),
have regard to the amount that could be recovered by the Authority if
it had executed the street works under the provisions of this Act.

 (6) The Authority must serve a copy of the order on the person who
is required to deposit or secure the amount determined for the
execution of street works, which amount —

(a) must be deposited with the Authority at such time as the
     Authority may by written notice specify;

(b) must be secured to the satisfaction of the Authority by such
     time and in such manner as the Authority may by written
     notice specify; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
41  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

       (c) must not be refunded, except in accordance with
            section 22.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (7) Any person who fails to deposit or secure the amount
determined for the execution of street works within the time
specified by the Authority shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine of $100 for every day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (8) The Authority may by written order vary the amount
determined under subsection (2) for the execution of street works
and serve a copy of the order on the person who is required to deposit
or secure the amount determined for the execution of street works.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (9) An order made under subsection (8) is deemed to be an order
made under subsection (2).

 (10) Any person who is dissatisfied with the order may, within
10 days of the service on the person of the order, appeal to the
Minister whose decision is final.

Authority may execute street works or cause street works to be
properly carried out

 21.—(1) If street works are not commenced or executed to the
satisfaction of the Authority in any case where a deposit has been
made or security has been furnished under section 20(6), the
Authority may, at any time after the service of a written notice,
execute the street works or cause the street works to be properly
carried out.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (2) The costs and expenses incurred by the Authority in the
execution of the street works or in causing the street works to be
properly carried out must be recovered from the deposit made or the
security furnished under section 20(6).

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     42

Refund of deposit or return of security when street works have
been completed

 22.—(1) Where a deposit has been made or security has been
furnished under section 20(6) and street works have been carried out
to the satisfaction of the Authority, the Authority may, upon an
application in writing, refund the deposit or return the security, in
whole or in part, to the person who made the application under
section 20(1).

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (2) The Authority may retain the deposit or the security or any part
thereof if it is of the opinion that —

(a) the street works have not been executed properly;

(b) the building operations in regard to the erection of any
     building which has not been commenced or completed
     would require further street works to be executed; or

       (c) it is required for a period of maintenance, which period
            must not exceed 12 months.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (3) In this section and in section 23, “building operations” means
such works as are carried out for the erection of any new building,
including works which are preparatory to the erection of a new
building.

Refund of deposit or return of security when building
operations are not commenced

 23.—(1) Any person who has made a deposit or furnished any
security under section 20(6), and who subsequently decides not to
proceed with the erection of any building, without having
commenced any building operations, may give written notice to the
Authority of the person’s intention not to proceed with the erection of
the building.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (2) The Authority must, on an application in writing by a person
who has given such a notice, refund the deposit or return the security,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
43  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

in whole or in part as it may determine, after the cancellation of the
approved plan by the Commissioner of Building Control.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

              Division 2 — Maintenance of private streets

Repair of private streets

 24.—(1) Where any private street or any part thereof is in a
defective condition, and if the Authority is satisfied that the safety of
the public requires that action should be taken, the Authority may, by
order require —

       (a) the owners of all premises abutting on the street and having
            access or right of access thereto from those premises; or

       (b) any person who, in the opinion of the Authority, was
            responsible for causing the street to be in a dangerous or
            defective condition,

to execute such work and make such provision as may be necessary to
remedy the defect within such time as is stated in the order and may in
the order specify the date before which the work must be commenced.

 (2) If any person to whom an order under subsection (1) is
addressed fails to comply with the requirements of the order —

       (a) the Authority may execute the order in such manner as it
            thinks fit to repair the defect to remove any immediate
            danger; and

       (b) such person must pay to the Authority the costs and
            expenses of the repair in such proportions as are settled by
            the Authority.

 (3) Where any person to whom an order under subsection (1) is
addressed fails to commence the work before the date specified in the
order, the Authority may, even though the period stated in the order
for the completion of the work has not yet expired, itself cause the
work to be done and recover from such person the costs and expenses
of the work or such proportions of the costs and expenses as are
settled by the Authority.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     44

 (4) If any person who is liable to pay costs and expenses under
subsection (2) or (3) is dissatisfied with the Authority’s
apportionment of costs and expenses, the person may appeal to the
Minister whose decision is final.

 (5) Despite subsections (1), (2) and (3), the Authority may execute
street works on any private street or any part thereof as may be
considered necessary for the public safety, except that the execution
of such street works by the Authority does not affect the liability of
any person under subsection (1), (2) or (3).

 (6) A certificate of the Authority stating that it is of the opinion that
such person or persons named in the certificate was or were
responsible for causing a private street or any part thereof to be in
a dangerous or defective condition is conclusive evidence for the
purpose of any proceedings for the recovery of the costs and expenses
of the repairing of that private street.

Notice on person causing private street to be in dangerous or
defective condition

 25.—(1) The Authority may, in any case where it is of the opinion
that any person is responsible for causing a private street or any part
thereof to be in a dangerous or defective condition, by notice require
the person not to make further use of the private street for the purpose
of transporting any matter, material or thing until such deposit as may
be required under subsection (2) has been made with the Authority.

 (2) The Authority may, by written order, require any person who
has been served with a notice under subsection (1) to deposit with the
Authority such sum as may be required for causing the street to be
properly repaired.

 (3) The Authority must, in making an order under subsection (2),
have regard to the costs and expenses that would have to be incurred
if it should cause the work to be done.

 (4) If a notice under subsection (1) is not complied with, the person
who has been served with the notice shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
45  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

    (a) to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
         term not exceeding 12 months or to both;

    (b) to a further fine not exceeding $500 for every day during
         which the notice was not complied with; and

    (c) to a further fine not exceeding $500 for every day during
        which the contravention of subsection (1) continues after
        conviction.

 (5) The certificate of the Authority stating that it is of the opinion
that the person named in the certificate is responsible for causing a
private street or any part thereof to be in a dangerous or defective
condition is conclusive evidence for the purpose of any prosecution
under this section.

                                    PART 4

                               DECLARATION

Private streets may be declared public streets

 26.—(1) If any street, not being a public street, is levelled,
channelled, drained, paved, metalled, flagged and provided with
lighting or otherwise made up to the satisfaction of the Authority, the
Authority may, whether at the request of the owners of the premises
fronting, adjoining or abutting on the street or otherwise, if it thinks
fit, by writing signed by the Chief Executive or such other officer as
the Authority may authorise in that behalf, declare that at the expiry
of one month from the date thereof the street becomes a public street.

 (2) A copy of such declaration must be forthwith posted up in some
part of the street.

 (3) At the expiry of one month from the date of the declaration
under subsection (1), unless the owners of the premises fronting,
adjoining or abutting on the street or the owners of such premises
having the greater part in annual value have, by notification to the
Authority in writing under their hands, objected thereto, the street
becomes a public street and vests in the Government and must forever
afterwards be repaired by the Authority.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     46

 (4) The declaration referred to in subsection (1) must be published
in the Gazette.

 (5) Where a street that has been declared to be a public street and
has become vested in the Government under this section comprises
premises included in separate lots already set aside as part of a street,
the declaration must be registered against those lots —

(a) under the Land Titles Act 1993 in respect of registered
     land; and

(b) under the Registration of Deeds Act 1988 in respect of
     other land.

 (6) Where a street that has been declared to be a public street and
has become vested in the Government under this section comprises
premises included in an existing lot or existing lots —

(a) the premises forming the street must be excised from the
     existing lot or lots; and

(b) the declaration must be registered in respect of the excised
     portions under the Land Titles Act 1993 in respect of
     registered land and under the Registration of Deeds
     Act 1988 in respect of other land.

 (7) Upon such registration, the premises forming the street vest in
the Government free from all encumbrances and where the premises
are held under a statutory land grant, such vesting is not deemed to
create a subdivision within the meaning of the State Lands Act 1920.

                                    PART 5

                                 WALKWAYS

Provisions of footways, etc.

 27.—(1) The Authority may, where it considers necessary, require
the owner of any premises —

       (a) to allow a footway to be constructed within the owner’s
            premises for the use of the public; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
47  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

       (b) to allow an existing footway within the owner’s premises
            to be improved for the use of the public.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (2) The construction or improvement of a footway under
subsection (1) must not affect any house within the premises,
except that if necessary for this purpose, the Authority may set back
any wall, fence, hedge or other similar erection.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (3) Where there is a vacant frontage adjacent to the public street to
which the public has access, the Authority may, in conjunction with
any street improvement scheme, carry out works to the frontage as it
considers fit.

 (4) For the purpose of this section, “vacant frontage” includes any
covered footway.

 (5) The Authority must not exercise the rights conferred by
subsection (1) or (3) unless it has given at least one month’s
written notice to the owner of the frontage stating its intention to carry
out the work, which notice must include a plan showing the affected
area of the frontage.

 (6) The Authority must prepare an estimate of the costs and
expenses to be apportioned among the owners of the premises
fronting, adjoining or abutting on the new or existing footway or
public street and must serve a notice of its decision in writing to
proceed with the works and to recover costs and expenses of the
works upon each of such owners, and such costs and expenses must
be paid within such period as may be specified in the notice and in
such proportions as are settled by the Authority.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (7) If the owner of any such premises is dissatisfied with the
Authority’s apportionment of costs and expenses, the owner may,
within 14 days from the date of service of the notice, appeal to the
Minister whose decision is final.

 (8) The Authority may, if it thinks fit, decide that in settling the
apportionment of costs and expenses regard must be had to the
following considerations:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     48

(a) the degree of benefit accruing to any premises by the
     construction or improvement of the new footway or street;

       (b) the amount and value of any street works already executed
            by the owners or occupiers of any such premises.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (9) The Authority may, if it thinks fit, pay the whole or any part of
the costs and expenses of the works, and the payment of part of the
costs and expenses may be made in such a manner as wholly to
relieve the owner of any particular premises to the exclusion of other
owners or to relieve that owner to a greater extent than other owners.

 (10) When the street works have been completed by the Authority
and the costs and expenses thereof ascertained —

(a) the Authority must cause a final apportionment of the costs
     and expenses of the street works to be made by dividing the
     costs and expenses in the same proportions as those in
     which the estimated costs and expenses were divided in the
     provisional apportionment;

(b) that final apportionment is conclusive for all purposes;

          (c) notice of the final apportionment must be served upon the
              owners of the premises affected thereby; and

(d) the sums apportioned thereby are recoverable in the
     manner provided in section 43.

 (11) No owner is entitled to any payment or compensation for the
use of the owner’s frontage under this section.

 (12) In every case where a footway is made under this section, the
Authority must deliver to each owner of the land a plan showing the
land taken for the footway with a declaration endorsed thereon under
the hand of the Minister to the effect that the land has been taken
under this section for use as a public footway, subject nevertheless to
the right of each owner or that owner’s successors in title at any time
to build in such a manner and to such extent as the owner or the
owner’s successors in title would have been entitled to build if the
land had not been taken for use as a public footway.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
49  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

Maintenance of footways

 28.—(1) Where a footway has been constructed or improved under
section 27, the Authority —

    (a) may issue written instructions to the owner of any premises
         fronting, adjoining or abutting on the footway to carry out
         maintenance work up to the standard required by the
         Authority; and

       (b) may, if it thinks fit, take over the footway for maintenance,
            in which case the Authority must issue a notice to the
            owner stating that the footway has been taken over by the
            Authority for maintenance.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (2) The owner must not modify any footway within the owner’s
land to which the public has access without the written permission of
the Authority.

                                    PART 6

                             UTILITY WORKS

Utility services

 29.—(1) The Authority may serve notice on the owner or supplier
of any gas, electricity, water, telecommunication, sewerage or
drainage services to alter the course or position of any wire, line,
cable, pipe, tube, casing, duct, post, structure or other apparatus
which belongs to or is maintained by that owner or supplier and to
repair any street surface thereby disturbed if, in the opinion of the
Authority, such alteration is required for the purposes of the
construction, operation, maintenance or improvement of any street.

 (2) A notice under subsection (1) must —

       (a) specify the apparatus or structure to which the notice
            applies and set out the Authority’s requirements as to the
            alteration of its course or position and the repair of any
            street surface;

       (b) stipulate the period within which such work must be
            carried out;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     50

          (c) be served upon the owner or supplier at least one month
              before the commencement of that period; and

(d) state that any person entitled to compensation in
     connection with the work required by the Authority may
     serve a written claim upon the Authority in accordance
     with the provisions of the Land Transport Authority of
     Singapore Act 1995.

                                    PART 7

                                BACKLANES

Authority to manage, maintain and repair backlanes vested in
Government

 29A. The Authority is responsible for the management,
maintenance and repair of backlanes vested in the Government.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

General provisions as to backlanes

 30.—(1) Neither the public nor any person is deemed to have any
right of ingress, egress or regress over any backlane vested in the
Government or any part thereof except by express grant by the
Authority which the Authority may withhold or give upon such terms
as it may think fit.

 (2) The Authority may prepare a plan of any backlane and the
Minister may, by writing under his or her hand, declare that, at the
expiry of one month from the date thereof, the backlane is vested in
the Government.

 (3) A copy of the declaration must be forthwith posted up in some
part of the backlane.

 (4) At the expiry of the period referred to in subsection (2), unless
the owners of the premises fronting, adjoining or abutting on the
backlane or the owners of such premises having the greater part in
annual value have, by notification to the Authority in writing under
their hands, objected thereto, the backlane is vested in the
Government.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
51  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

 (5) Where a backlane has been declared to be vested in the
Government under this section, the declaration must be registered
together with the plan under the Land Titles Act 1993 in respect of
registered land and under the Registration of Deeds Act 1988 in
respect of other land.

 (6) Upon such registration, the land comprised in the plan is
deemed to be vested in the Government freed from all encumbrances,
and where the land is held under a statutory land grant, such vesting is
not deemed to be a subdivision within the meaning of the State Lands
Act 1920.

Backlanes to be levelled, paved, etc., by Authority

 31.—(1) The Authority is to level, pave, metal, channel and drain,
and may provide lighting for, all backlanes vested in the Government
under section 30.

 (2) When the Authority has made up a backlane, the Authority may
recover the costs and expenses of acquiring the land for, and of
making up, the backlane from the owners of premises abutting on the
backlane.

 (3) Such costs and expenses must be paid by the persons who are
the owners of premises abutting on the backlane when the works are
completed according to the frontage of their respective premises in
such proportions as are settled by the Authority.

 (4) If the owner of any such premises is dissatisfied with the
Authority’s apportionment of costs and expenses, that owner may,
within 14 days of being notified of such apportionment, appeal to the
Minister whose decision is final.

 (5) The Authority may, if it thinks fit, decide that in settling the
apportionment regard must be had to the following considerations:

       (a) the degree of benefit accruing to any premises by the
            making up of the backlane;

       (b) the amount and value of any works already executed by the
            owners or occupiers of any such premises.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     52

 (6) The Authority may, in any estimate of the costs and expenses of
works, include reasonable charges in respect of survey and
superintendence.

 (7) The Authority may, if it thinks fit, pay the whole or any part of
the costs and expenses of the works and the payment of part of the
costs and expenses may be made in such manner as the Authority
thinks fit to the exclusion of other owners or to relieve one owner to a
greater extent than the other owners.

 (8) Section 43 applies to any sum payable by the owners under this
section.

                                    PART 8

                            SUPPLEMENTARY

Power to erect lighting apparatuses, street name signs and
other road related facilities

 32. The Authority may cause such lighting apparatuses, street name
signs, traffic signs, directional signs and other road related facilities
to be put up or fixed upon or against the walls of any building or
enclosure or to be put up or erected in such other manner within any
street, road or place as it thinks proper.

Obstruction of public streets, five-footways and private
footways

 32A.—(1) A person must not —

       (a) deposit or cause or allow any article or thing to be
            deposited on any public street, five‑footway or private
            footway;

                                                                                [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

       (b) cause or allow any article or thing to remain on or to
            protrude over any public street, five‑footway or private
            footway; or

                                                                                [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

       (c) erect or cause to be erected a structure on, under or over
            any public street, five‑footway or private footway,

                                                                                [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
53  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

so as to create any obstruction or inconvenience to the passage of the
public on the public street, five-footway or private footway.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

 (3) If —

    (a) any article or thing is deposited or left on, or protrudes
         over; or

    (b) any structure is erected, placed, maintained, replaced,
         renewed or restored on, under or over,

any public street, five‑footway or private footway in contravention of
subsection (1), an authorised officer may move or remove that article,
thing or structure, or cause it to be so moved or removed, so that it is
no longer an obstruction or inconvenience to the passage of the public
on the public street, five‑footway or private footway.

                                                                                [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

 (4) An authorised officer must not exercise a power under
subsection (3) unless the officer has taken reasonable steps to
inform the following persons (if known), whoever is relevant, of the
officer’s intention to exercise that power, and allowed or directed the
person to move or remove the article, thing or structure:

     (a) the owner of the article, thing or structure, as the case may
          be;

                                                                           [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

     (b) the person who caused the article or thing to be deposited
          or left on, or to protrude over, the public street,
          five‑footway or private footway;

                                                                           [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

    (ba) the person who caused the structure to be erected on, under
          or over the public street, five‑footway or private footway;

                                                                           [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     54

       (c) the owner or occupier of any land or building fronting,
            adjoining or abutting on the public street, five‑footway or
            private footway.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

                                                                                [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

 (5) For the purpose of exercising a power under subsection (3), an
authorised officer may, with such assistance as the officer considers
necessary —

       (a) demolish or remove any structure erected on, under or over
            the public street, five‑footway or private footway, and then
            move or remove the structure to store at a holding yard and
            dispose of the resulting debris from the demolition;

                                                                                [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

       (b) move or remove from the public street, five‑footway or
            private footway, any article, thing or structure by any
            reasonable means to store at a holding yard, including by
            towing the article, thing or structure (as the case may be) to
            a holding yard; and

                                                                                [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

       (c) use reasonable force, including cutting or breaking open
            any lock, seal, fastener or other device on or connected to
            any article, thing or structure mentioned in paragraph (a)
            or (b).

                                                                                [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

 (6) A person must move or remove any article, thing or structure
where allowed or directed to do so by an authorised officer under
subsection (4).

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

                                                                                [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

 (7) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
subsection (6) shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (8) Where an authorised officer has exercised any power under
subsection (3) in relation to any article, thing or structure —

(a) the authorised officer must cause a written notice to be sent
     to an owner of the article, thing or structure (if known) to
     inform the owner of —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
55                      Street Works Act 1995                 2020 Ed.

    (i) the removal or demolition of the article, thing or
        structure;

    (ii) the manner by which and the time within which the
         owner may procure the release of the article, thing or
         structure if not demolished; and

    (iii) the consequences that may follow under
          subsections (10) and (11) if the article, thing or
          structure is not claimed within the time specified in
          the notice; and

       (b) the Authority may recover, from any person mentioned in
            subsection (4)(a), (b), (ba) or (c), any costs reasonably
            incurred by the Authority in connection with the exercise
            of those powers, including costs of storing any article,
            thing or structure.

                                                                                [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

 (9) Despite subsections (8) and (10), where it appears to the
Authority that any article, thing or structure moved or removed under
subsection (3) —

    (a) is perishable;

    (b) may rapidly depreciate in value; or

    (c) is of such a nature or in such condition that it would be
        dangerous, not reasonably practicable or unduly costly for
        the Authority to retain custody of the article, thing or
        structure,

the Authority may, instead of storing the article, thing or structure at a
holding yard and notifying the owner thereof, cause it —

    (d) to be sold (by public auction or otherwise) at once; or

       (e) to be destroyed or otherwise disposed of at such time and in
            such manner as the Authority thinks fit.

                                                                                [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

 (10) If the article, thing or structure is not claimed by its owner
within the time specified in the notice mentioned in subsection (8)(a),
the Authority may dispose of the article, thing or structure in such

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     56

manner as it thinks fit (including selling the article, thing or
structure).

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

                                                                                [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

 (11) Where any article, thing or structure has been sold under
subsection (9) or (10), the proceeds of the sale —

(a) must be applied in payment of any expenses incurred in
     removing, storing and disposing of the article, thing or
     structure under this section; and

(b) thereafter must be applied in payment of all charges and
     fines payable under this Act and any regulations made
     under this Act,

and the surplus (if any) must be paid to the owner of the article, thing
or structure, or if not claimed by such owner within 12 months of the
date of the sale, is forfeited to the Authority.

                                                                                                [11/2003; 38/2018]

                                                                                [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

 (12) In addition to the methods of service under section 47 —

       (a) information required under subsection (4) may be given by
            affixing it to the article, thing or structure in respect of
            which it applies; and

                                                                                [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

       (b) a notice mentioned in subsection (8)(a) may be served by
            posting it conspicuously at or near the part of the public
            street, five-footway or private footway from which the
            article, thing or structure was removed, if the name and
            address of the owner of the article, thing or structure are
            unknown or cannot be ascertained despite reasonable
            diligence.

                                                                                                [11/2003; 38/2018]

                                                                                [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

 (13) Any person who, without the authority of an authorised officer,
removes or tampers with any notice that has been affixed to any
article, thing or structure under subsection (12)(a) or that has been

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
57  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

posted at any part of a public street, five‑footway or private footway
under subsection (12)(b) shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                 [11/2003; 6/2004]

                                                                                [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

 (14) Any person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (2) or
(7) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $100
for every day or part thereof during which the offence continues after
conviction.

                                                                                                [11/2003; 38/2018]

 (15) In this section —

    “authorised officer” means any employee of the Authority, any
       outsourced enforcement officer and any other person
       appointed by the Authority under section 4 to assist in the
       enforcement of this section;

    “erect”, in relation to a structure, includes any work carried out
       in constructing, installing, creating, replacing, maintaining,
       renewing or restoring a structure;

    “structure” includes any of the following:

    (a) a post, pile, stake, pipe, chain, wire or any other
         similar thing fixed to the ground;

    (b) a billboard, signboard, hoarding, fence, partition,
         sun-shading device or canopy, an awning or
         advertising structure, or a platform, safety netting
         or other similar temporary structure;

    (c) a tunnel or bridge or an underpass or overpass;

              (d) a roof, cladding, curtain wall, bracket, cornice or
                   other exterior feature of a building that is installed on,
                   forms part of or projects outwards from a building.

                                                                                [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

 (16) This section does not apply in relation to any public path
(within the meaning of the Active Mobility Act 2017) that is not on
State land.

                                                                                                 [3/2017; 38/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     58

Damaging public streets, etc.

33.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

(a) the person intentionally, recklessly or negligently engages
     in conduct that causes damage to —

          (i) a public street; or

          (ii) any property belonging to the Government by virtue
               of this Act, or acquired by the Government under this
               Act, which is in, on or under a public street;

(b) the person does not have the prior written approval of the
     Authority to engage in such conduct; and

          (c) the damage —

          (i) to the public street prevents or substantially prevents
              the passage of pedestrians or vehicular traffic on or
              other use of the public street; or

              (ii) to the property belonging to or acquired by the
                   Government prevents or substantially prevents the
                   property from being used or operated in the manner
                   in which it is intended to be used or operated.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (2) A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction as follows:

(a) for intentionally engaging in conduct which is the
     offence — to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to
     imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
     both;

       (b) for any other case — to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
            imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (3) Whether or not any proceedings for an offence under
subsection (1) are instituted or result in a conviction, the Authority
may recover from any person who engaged in conduct that caused
damage to —

(a) any public street; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
59  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

    (b) any property belonging to the Government by virtue of this
         Act, or acquired by the Government under this Act, which
         is in, on or under a public street,

the full amount of the damage caused.                         [38/2018]
 (4) In this section —

    “conduct” means any act or omission, any series of acts or
       omissions, or both;

    “engage in conduct” means engage, whether directly or
        indirectly, in conduct either alone or together with any
        other person or persons.

                                                                                                         [38/2018]

34. [Repealed by Act 38 of 2018]

Mandatory order

 35.—(1) Where any owner or occupier is required under this Act to
erect or remove any building or thing or to perform any other work
and after due notice fails to erect or remove the building or thing or to
perform the work within the prescribed time, the Authority may make
an order (called a mandatory order) requiring the owner or occupier to
execute the required work within the time specified in the order.

 (2) Where a person against whom a mandatory order is made fails
to comply with the requirements of the order —

       (a) the person shall, unless the person satisfies the court that
            the person has used all due diligence to carry out the order,
            be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
            fine not exceeding $500 a day during the person’s default;
            and

       (b) the Authority or any person authorised by the Authority
            may enter the premises and execute the work so required to
            be executed and the expenses thereby incurred by the
            Authority must be paid by the person in default and, if that
            person is the owner, section 43 applies in respect of those
            expenses, and in any other case section 40 applies.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     60

Provision as to appeal against mandatory order

 36.—(1) Where a person against whom a mandatory order is made
is aggrieved by the order —

(a) the person may, within 14 days from the date of the order
     and in the prescribed form and manner, appeal to the
     Minister; and

(b) no liability to a fine under section 35(2)(a) shall arise and,
     except as provided for in this section, proceedings must not
     be taken and work must not be done under the order until
     after the determination or abandonment of the appeal.

 (2) Where an appeal is brought under this section from a mandatory
order, the Minister may dismiss or allow the appeal unconditionally
or subject to such conditions as he or she considers fit, and any
decision made by the Minister on the appeal is final.

 (3) Where a mandatory order is being appealed against and the
Minister is of the opinion that the non‑execution of the order will be
injurious or dangerous to the public health and that the immediate
execution of the order will not cause any injury to the person against
whom the order was made which cannot be compensated by
damages, the Minister may authorise the Authority immediately to
execute the work.

 (4) The Authority must, if it does the work and the appeal is
successful, pay the costs and expenses of the work and the damages
(if any) sustained by the appellant by reason of the work, but, if the
appeal is dismissed or abandoned, the Authority may recover the
costs and expenses of the work from the appellant and, if the appellant
is the owner of the premises in respect of which the mandatory order
was made, section 43 applies to any sum recoverable from that owner
hereunder, and in any other case section 40 applies.

Powers of Authority in cases of emergency

 37.—(1) In cases of emergency, the Authority may direct the
immediate execution of any work or the doing of any act being any
work or act authorised under this Act which is in the opinion of the
Authority necessary for the service or safety of the public.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
61  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

 (2) The Authority must not act under this section in contravention
of any decision of the Minister or against any policy of the
Government.

 (3) Where the Authority acts under this section, it must report such
action to the Minister at the first opportunity to do so.

Authority in executing works to provide roads, etc., where
existing ones are damaged

 38. The Authority in executing any works directed or authorised by
this Act to be executed must provide and make a sufficient number of
convenient ways, watercourses, drains and channels in the place of
such as are interrupted, damaged or rendered useless by reason of the
execution of the works.

Penalty for removing mark set up by Authority

 39. Any person who at any time removes any mark set up for the
purpose of indicating any level or direction necessary to the execution
of works authorised by this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months.

Compensation

 40.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, in all cases where
compensation, damages, fees, costs and expenses are by virtue of this
Act payable by any person to the Authority or to the Government, the
amount and (if necessary) the apportionment of the amount and any
question of liability is, in case of dispute or failure to pay, to be
summarily ascertained and determined by a District Court.

 (2) If the amount of compensation, damages, fees, costs or expenses
is not paid by the person liable to pay the same within 14 days after
demand, that amount may be reported to the District Court and
recovered in the same manner as if it were a fine imposed by the
District Court.

 (3) An appeal lies to the General Division of the High Court from
any decision of the District Court under this section, and the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     62

provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 apply, with the
necessary modifications, to all such appeals.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Occupier may execute work upon default of owner

 41. Whenever default is made by an owner of any premises in the
execution of any work required under this Act to be executed by the
owner, an occupier of the premises may, with the approval of the
Authority, cause the work to be executed and the costs and expenses
thereof must be paid to the occupier by the owner or the amount may
be deducted out of the rent from time to time becoming due from the
occupier to the owner and the occupier may, in the absence of any
special agreement to the contrary, retain possession until those costs
and expenses have been fully reimbursed to the occupier.

Liability of transferor who has not given notice

 42.—(1) Every person who sells or transfers any property in respect
of which costs and expenses have been incurred by the Authority in
connection with the execution of any work which are, under this Act,
recoverable from the owner thereof continues to be liable for —

       (a) the payment of all the costs and expenses payable in
            respect of the property which become payable; and

       (b) the performance of all other obligations imposed by this
            Act upon the owner of the property which are to be
            performed,

at any time before such notice of transfer as is required by section 19
of the Property Tax Act 1960 has been given.

 (2) Nothing in this section affects the liability of the purchaser or
transferee to pay the costs and expenses in respect of the property or
the right of the Authority to recover the costs and expenses or to
perform any obligation under this Act.

Recovery of costs and expenses payable by owners

 43.—(1) All and any sums payable by or recoverable from the
owner in respect of the costs and expenses incurred by the Authority
in connection with the execution of any work which are, under this

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
63  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

Act, recoverable from the owner of any premises are, subject and
without prejudice to any other rights of the Authority, a first charge on
the premises in respect of which the costs and expenses were
incurred.

 (2) In addition to any other remedies conferred by this Act, any
such sum may be recovered in the manner hereinafter provided, and
the person liable to pay it is the owner for the time being of any
premises in respect of which any sum is due.

 (3) Any occupier who, when requested by or on behalf of the
Authority to state the name of the owner of the premises, refuses or
wilfully omits to disclose or wilfully misstates the name shall, unless
the occupier shows cause to the satisfaction of the court for the
occupier’s refusal or misstatement, be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

 (4) If any such sum remains unpaid at the expiry of the prescribed
time, a notice is to be served upon the person or any one of the
persons, if more than one, liable to pay it, calling on the person to pay
that sum together with a fee of such amount as may be prescribed for
the cost of the notice, within 15 days of the service of the notice.

 (5) If no person liable to pay the sum can be found, the notice is
deemed to have been duly served by the posting thereof at the office
of the Authority and by fixing a copy thereof on some conspicuous
part of the premises in respect of which the costs and expenses were
incurred.

 (6) At the expiry of the period of 15 days mentioned in
subsection (4) or such further period as the Authority may allow, if
any such sum or part thereof remains due and unpaid, it is deemed to
be arrears and may be recovered as hereinafter provided.

 (7) The charge mentioned in subsection (1) attaches, and the
powers and remedies hereinbefore conferred become exercisable as
from the date of completion of the work, and thereafter those powers
and remedies may be exercised against the premises or against any
movable property or crops for the time being found thereon, despite
any change in the ownership or occupation of the premises
subsequent to that date.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     64

 (8) The Authority may charge interest at a rate to be prescribed by
the Authority on any sum remaining unpaid at the expiry of the
prescribed time.

Recovery of costs and expenses by instalments

 44.—(1) Where the Authority has incurred costs and expenses in
connection with the execution of any work, which are, under this Act,
payable by or recoverable from the owner of any premises, the
Authority may either recover those costs and expenses in the manner
hereinbefore provided or, if it thinks fit, take any engagement from
the owner for the payment of such instalments as will be sufficient to
defray the whole amount of the costs and expenses with interest
thereon at a rate to be prescribed by the Authority, within a period not
exceeding 10 years.

 (2) Upon default in payment of any instalment or interest upon the
date appointed for payment thereof by any such engagement, the
whole of the balance then outstanding of that amount, together with
any interest in arrear, immediately becomes due and payable and,
despite any change in the ownership or occupation of the premises
since the date of the engagement, may be recovered by the same
means and in like manner as provided in section 43.

Proceedings if occupier opposes execution of works

 45.—(1) If the occupier of any premises prevents the owner of the
premises from carrying into effect in respect of the premises any of
the provisions of this Act after notice of the owner’s intention to do so
has been given by the owner to that occupier, the Authority may, upon
proof thereof and upon application of the owner, make an order
requiring the occupier to permit the owner to execute all such works
with respect to the premises as are necessary for carrying into effect
the provisions of this Act.

 (2) If after the expiry of 8 days from the date of the order the
occupier continues to refuse to permit the owner to execute the works,
the occupier shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $200 for every day during which
the offence was committed, and every such owner during the
continuance of the offence is discharged from any penalties to which

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
65  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

that owner might otherwise have become liable by reason of that
owner’s default in executing the works.

Licences, approval, consent, etc., granted by Authority

 46.—(1) The grant or renewal of any approval, consent, permit,
permission, authority, authorisation or licence pursuant to this Act or
any regulations made under this Act is in the discretion of the
Authority or the person authorised by the Authority to grant or renew
it and the approval, consent, permit, permission, authority,
authorisation or licence —

       (a) may be granted, renewed or refused without any reason for
            the grant, renewal or refusal being assigned therefor;

       (b) may be granted or renewed subject to such restrictions and
            conditions as the Authority or the person granting it may
            think fit; and

       (c) is subject to suspension or revocation at any time without
            compensation and without notice by the Authority upon
            breach of any restriction or condition subject to which it
            was issued.

 (2) The Authority or the person empowered to grant or renew any
approval, consent, permit, permission, authority, authorisation or
licence may require any applicant therefor to provide such
information as the Authority or that person may reasonably require
for a full and proper consideration of the application and in the event
of a refusal to provide such information must refuse to grant or renew
the approval, consent, permit, permission, authority, authorisation or
licence.

 (3) Except as otherwise provided, any approval, consent, permit,
permission, authority, authorisation or licence granted or renewed
pursuant to this Act or any regulations made under this Act may be for
such period not exceeding 12 months as the Authority thinks fit.

 (4) Such fee (if any) as the Authority may prescribe is to be charged
for the grant or renewal of any approval, consent, permit, permission,
authority, authorisation or licence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     66

 (5) No approval, consent, permit, permission, authority,
authorisation or licence is transferable without the consent of the
Authority or the person granting it.

 (6) Except as otherwise provided, any person aggrieved by the
refusal of the Authority or authorised person to grant or renew any
approval, consent, permit, permission, authority, authorisation or
licence or by the suspension or revocation by the Authority or
authorised person of any approval, consent, permit, permission,
authority, authorisation or licence may, within one month of the
refusal, suspension or revocation, appeal to the Minister whose
decision is final.

Service of notices

 47.—(1) Every summons, notice, order or document required or
authorised by this Act or any regulations made under this Act to be
served on any person may be served by —

       (a) delivering it to that person;

       (b) delivering it at his or her last known place of residence to
            some adult member or employee of his or her family;

       (c) leaving it at the person’s usual or last known place of
            residence or place of business in a cover addressed to the
            person; or

       (d) forwarding it by post in a prepaid letter addressed to the
            person at the person’s usual or last known place of
            residence or place of business.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (2) Where any summons, notice, order or document is to be served
on any incorporated company or body or unincorporated association,
it may be served by —

       (a) delivering it to the secretary or other like officer of the
            company or body or unincorporated association at its
            registered or principal office; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
67  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

       (b) sending it by registered post addressed to the company or
            body or unincorporated association at its registered or
            principal office.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (3) In addition, any notice, order or document (other than a
summons) required or authorised by this Act or any regulations made
under this Act to be served on an individual, a partnership, a body
corporate or an unincorporated association may be served —

    (a) by sending it by email to the email address of the
         individual, partnership, body corporate or unincorporated
         association, as the case may be;

    (b) by sending it by fax to whichever of the following is
         applicable:

    (i) the fax number last known to the Authority as the fax
        number for the service of notices, orders or
        documents on the individual;

    (ii) the fax number used at the partnership’s business
         address;

    (iii) the fax number used at the body corporate’s or
          unincorporated association’s registered office or
          principal office in Singapore;

    (c) by giving an electronic notice to the individual,
        partnership, body corporate or unincorporated
        association (called in this section an addressee) by the
        addressee’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
        notice, order or document is available and how the
        addressee may use the addressee’s chosen means of
        access to access the contents of that notice, order or
        document; or

    (d) by any other method authorised by any regulations made
         under this Act for the service of notices, orders or
         documents of that kind if the recipient consents
         (expressly or impliedly) to service of a notice, order or
         document of that kind in that way.

                                                                                                     [38/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     68

 (4) Any summons, notice, order or document required or authorised
by this Act or any regulations made under this Act to be served on the
owner or occupier of any premises may be served by delivering the
same or a true copy thereof to some adult person on the premises or, if
there is no such person on the premises to whom the same can with
reasonable diligence be delivered, by affixing the summons, notice,
order or document to some conspicuous part of the premises.

 (5) Service of any notice, order or document under
subsection (3)(a) or (b) takes effect —

(a) if the notice, order or document is sent by email — at the
     time that the email becomes capable of being retrieved by
     the person; or

       (b) if the notice, order or document is sent by fax and a
            notification of successful transmission is received — on
            the day of transmission.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (6) However, service of any notice, order or document under this
Act or any regulations made under this Act on a person by email or by
an electronic notice at the person’s chosen means of notification may
be effected only with the person’s prior consent (express or implied)
to service in that way.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (7) In this section —

“business address” or “place of business” means —

          (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
               last known place of business in Singapore; or

          (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
               liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
               last known place of business in Singapore;

“chosen means of access”, for an addressee on whom is or is to
   be served any notice, order or document required or
   authorised by this Act or any regulations made under this
   Act, means an electronic means the addressee agrees with the
   person giving or serving the notice, order or document as the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
69  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

    means by which the addressee may access the contents of that
    notice, order or document;

    “chosen means of notification”, for an addressee on whom is or
       is to be served any notice, order or document required or
       authorised by this Act or any regulations made under this Act,
       means an electronic means that the addressee nominates to
       the person giving or serving the notice, order or document as
       the means by which the addressee may be notified that such a
       notice, order or document has been served on the addressee;

    “email address” means the last email address given by the
       addressee concerned to the person giving or serving a notice,
       order or document as the email address for the service of
       notices, orders or documents under this Act or any
       regulations made under this Act.

                                                              [38/2018]

Receipts and notices may be given or served by authorised
officer

 48.—(1) All notices, orders, receipts, warrants and other
documents of whatsoever nature which the Authority is
empowered to give or serve by this Act or any regulations made
under this Act may be given or served by any officer or employee
authorised by the Authority.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (2) Any such notice, order, warrant, receipt or document given or
served by the Authority under this Act or any regulations made under
this Act may be given or served electronically, in writing or
otherwise, as the Authority may determine, and it is not a
requirement that such notice, order, warrant, receipt or document
must contain the signature of the Authority or any authorised officer.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

Protection from personal liability

 48A. No liability shall lie against any member, officer or employee
of the Authority or any other person acting under the direction of the
Authority for anything done or intended to be done with reasonable

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     70

care and in good faith in the execution or purported execution of this
Act.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

General penalties

 49. Any person guilty of an offence under this Act or any
regulations made under this Act for which no penalty is expressly
provided shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

Jurisdiction of District Court

 49A. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any
offence under this Act and has power to impose the full penalty in
respect of the offence.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

Inaccuracies in documents

 50. No misnomer or inaccurate description of any person, premises,
building, holding, street or place named or described in any document
prepared, issued or served under, by virtue of or for the purposes of
this Act or any regulations made under this Act in any way affects the
operation of this Act or any such regulations as respects that person or
place if that person or place is so designated in the document as to be
identifiable, and no proceedings taken under or by virtue of this Act
or any such regulations are invalid for want of form.

Evidence

 51.—(1) The contents of any document prepared, issued or served
under, by virtue of or for the purposes of this Act or any regulations
made under this Act are, until the contrary is proved, presumed to be
correct and the production of any book purporting to contain any
apportionment made under or by virtue of this Act shall, without any
other evidence whatever, be received as prima facie proof of the
making and validity of the apportionment mentioned therein.

 (2) All records, registers and other documents required by this Act
or any regulations made under this Act to be kept by the Authority or
any officer thereof are deemed to be public documents and copies

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
71  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

thereof or extracts therefrom certified by the officer responsible for
the custody thereof to be true copies or extracts (as the case may be)
subscribed by that officer with his or her name and his or her official
title are admissible in evidence as proof of the contents of the
document or extract therefrom.

Composition of offences

 52.—(1) The Authority may compound any offence under this Act
or any regulations made under this Act that is prescribed as being an
offence which may be compounded by doing one or both of the
following:

       (a) by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
            committed the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of
            the following:

               (i) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
                   prescribed for the offence;

              (ii) $5,000;

       (b) by requiring the person reasonably suspected of having
            committed the offence to do, or to refrain from doing, such
            things as are specified in an offer of composition (called
            conditions of composition) by the Authority, with the
            concurrence (general or specific) of the Public Prosecutor.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (2) On payment of the sum of money and on full compliance with
the conditions of composition, no further proceedings are to be taken
against that person in respect of the offence.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

Regulations

 53.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations for or in respect of every purpose which it considers
necessary for carrying out the provisions of this Act, and in particular,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Street Works Act 1995                                     72

without limiting the foregoing, for or in respect of all or any of the
matters specified in the Schedule.

 (2) The Minister may, from time to time, by notification in the
Gazette, add to, alter or amend the Schedule.

 (3) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, in making
any regulations, prescribe the circumstances in which it is presumed
that an offence under the provisions of any such regulations was
committed.

 (4) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, in making
any regulations, provide that any contravention of, or failure or
neglect to comply with, any regulations shall be an offence and may
prescribe the fine with which the offence shall be punishable, but the
fine must not exceed for any one offence the sum of $2,000 and, in the
case of a continuing offence, the sum of $100 for every day or part of
a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (5) All regulations made under this Act must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Saving and transitional provisions

 54.—(1) Any —

       (a) scheme, contract, document or resolution prepared, made
            or approved; or

       (b) approval, consent, permit, permission, authority,
            authorisation or licence granted,

under the repealed Act, except where otherwise expressly provided in
this Act or in any other written law, continues and is deemed to have
been prepared, made, approved or granted, as the case may be, under
this Act.

 (2) Where in any written law, reference is made to —

       (a) “the Director-General”;

       (b) “the Director-General of Public Works”; or

       (c) “the Director-General of Public Works appointed under
            section 13(1) of the Local Government Integration Act”,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
73  Street Works Act 1995                                     2020 Ed.

such reference is to be read as a reference to the Commissioner of
Building Control appointed under section 3 of the Building Control
Act 1989.

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                           Section 53

                      SUBJECT MATTERS OF REGULATIONS

 1. The laying or carrying of any line or rails, or utilities along, through, across,
over or under public streets, public bridges or any street which is to be declared
public.

 2. The granting of permits for the carrying and maintenance of utilities along,
through, across, over or under public streets, public bridges or any street which is
to be declared public, and the fixing and levying of annual or other fees therefor.

 3. The level, width and construction of streets and the repairing, cleaning,
watering and lighting of streets, roads, canals and bridges and the planting of trees.

 4. The management, maintenance and repair of backlanes vested in the
Government.

 5. The supervision and control of backlanes vested in the Government, of public
streets and of streets laid out or constructed by the Authority and the licensing of
persons to use such streets and backlanes for any purpose or in any particular
manner other than in the exercise of any right of way thereover.

 6. The provision, construction, dimensions and paving along any portion of any
land alongside such streets.

 7. The utility works in public streets, public bridges or any street which is to be
declared public.

 7. The closing, fencing, lighting, and repair of any works, hole or place likely to
be a danger to the public.

 8. The prescribing of forms for licences and for other purposes for use in
connection with this Act.

 9. The seizure, removal and disposal of articles and things by the Authority
under this Act.

 10. The submission of plans for and other documents relating to the carrying out
of engineering works within the road structure safety zone.

 11. The prescribing of fees and charges for the purposes of this Act.

                                                                                                            [11/2003]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                       STREET WORKS ACT 1995

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                               PART 1
      LOCAL GOVERNMENT INTEGRATION ACT

        (CHAPTER 166, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

1. Ordinance 18 of 1963 — Local Government Integration Ordinance, 1963

Bill                     : 187/1963

First Reading            : 5 April 1963

Second Reading           : 15 June 1963

Select Committee Report  : Sessional Paper No. L.A. 5 of 1963

Third Reading            : 31 July 1963

Commencement             : 1 September 1963

Note: This Ordinance repealed sections 137 to 149 of the Local Government
        Ordinance, 1957 (Ordinance 24 of 1957) relating to streets.

2. Ordinance 3 of 1964 — Local Government Integration (Amendment)
                                   Ordinance, 1964

Bill                     : Information not available

First, Second and Third  : 2 November 1964
Readings

Commencement             : 1 September 1963

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
                      ii

3. Ordinance 2 of 1965 — Local Government Integration (Amendment)
                                   Ordinance, 1965

Bill                  : 36/1964

First Reading         : 17 November 1964

Second and Third Readings : 16 June 1965

Commencement          : 8 October 1965

4. Ordinance 7 of 1965 — Slaughter-houses and Meat Processing Factories
                                  Ordinance, 1965

   (Amendments made by section 15 of the above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 40/1964

First Reading         : 19 November 1964

Second and Third Readings : 16 June 1965

Commencement          : 5 November 1965 (section 15)

5. Act 25 of 1967 — Local Government Integration (Amendment) Act, 1967

Bill                  : 20/1967

First Reading         : 7 September 1967

Second Reading        : 31 October 1967

Notice of Amendments  : 31 October 1967

Third Reading         : 31 October 1967

Commencement          : 1 December 1967

6. Act 32 of 1968 — Environmental Public Health Act, 1968
   (Amendments made by section 146 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 36/1968

First Reading         : 3 December 1968

Second and Third Readings : 16 December 1968

Commencement          : 2 January 1969 (section 146)

7. Act 1 of 1970 — Local Government Integration (Amendment) Act, 1970

Bill                  : 32/1969

First Reading         : 23 December 1969

Second and Third Readings : 27 January 1970

Commencement          : 27 February 1970

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
                      iii

8. 1970 Revised Edition — Local Government Integration Act
                                    (Chapter 210)

Operation             : 1 July 1971

9. Act 59 of 1973 — Building Control Act, 1973
   (Amendments made by section 28 read with the Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 51/1973

First Reading         : 28 August 1973

Second Reading        : 30 November 1973

Notice of Amendments  : 30 November 1973

Third Reading         : 30 November 1973

Commencement          : 1 April 1974 (section 28 read with
                            the Schedule)

10. Act 11 of 1975 — Local Government Integration (Amendment) Act, 1975

Bill                  : 3/1975

First Reading         : 25 February 1975

Second and Third Readings : 27 March 1975

Commencement          : 15 May 1975

11. Act 14 of 1975 — Parks and Trees Act, 1975
     (Amendments made by section 22 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 18/1975

First Reading         : 17 March 1975

Second and Third Readings : 27 March 1975

Commencement          : 15 May 1975 (section 22)

12. Act 29 of 1975 — Water Pollution Control and Drainage Act, 1975
     (Amendments made by section 69 read with the Second Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 27/1975

First Reading         : 26 March 1975

Second Reading        : 29 July 1975

Notice of Amendments  : 29 July 1975

Third Reading         : 29 July 1975

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
               iv

Commencement   : 1 September 1975 (section 69 read
                     with the Second Schedule)

13. Act 6 of 1980 — Fire Service Act, 1980
     (Amendments made by section 33 of the above Act)

Bill           : 41/1979

First Reading  : 11 December 1979

Second and Third Readings : 26 February 1980

Commencement   : 1 August 1980 (section 33)

14. Act 27 of 1981 — Local Government Integration (Amendment) Act, 1981

Bill           : 27/1981

First Reading  : 23 October 1981

Second and Third Readings : 22 December 1981

Commencement   : 5 February 1982

15. G.N. No. S 331/1985 — Metrication (Local Government Integration Act)
                                   Order 1985

Commencement   : 29 November 1985

16. G.N. No. S 14/1986 — Local Government Integration Act (Variation of
                                   Interest Rate) Notification 1986

Commencement   : 1 February 1986

17. 1985 Revised Edition — Local Government Integration Act
                                     (Chapter 166)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

18. G.N. No. S 330/1988 — Local Government Integration Act (Variation of
                                    Interest Rate) Notification 1988

Commencement   : 1 November 1988

19. Act 9 of 1989 — Building Control Act 1989
     (Amendments made by section 55(2) of the above Act)

Bill           : 5/1989

First Reading  : 16 January 1989

Second and Third Readings : 16 February 1989

Commencement   : 1 May 1989 (section 55(2))

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
                      v

20. G.N. No. S 182/1991 — Local Government Integration Act (Variation of
                                    Interest Rate) Notification 1991

Commencement          : 19 April 1991

                             PART 2
                STREET WORKS ACT 1995
                (2020 REVISED EDITION)

21. Act 30 of 1995 — Street Works Act 1995

Bill                  : 26/1995

First Reading         : 7 July 1995

Second and Third Readings : 7 August 1995

Commencement          : 1 September 1995

22. 1996 Revised Edition — Street Works Act (Chapter 320A)

Operation             : 30 April 1996

23. G.N. No. S 92/1997 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Rectification)
                                   Order 1997

Operation             : 30 April 1996

24. Act 3 of 1998 — Planning Act 1998
     (Amendments made by section 65 read with item (11) of the Second Schedule
     to the above Act)

Bill                  : 18/1997

First Reading         : 19 November 1997

Second Reading        : 14 January 1998

Notice of Amendments  : 14 January 1998

Third Reading         : 14 January 1998

Commencement          : 1 April 1998 (section 65 read with
                            item (11) of the Second Schedule)

25. Act 11 of 2003 — Street Works (Amendment) Act 2003

Bill                  : 9/2003

First Reading         : 24 April 2003

Second and Third Readings : 30 June 2003

Commencement          : 1 August 2003

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
                      vi

26. Act 6 of 2004 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2004
     (Amendments made by section 9 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 4/2004

First Reading         : 5 January 2004

Second and Third Readings : 6 February 2004

Commencement          : 8 March 2004 (section 9)

27. Act 12 of 2015 — Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act 2015
     (Amendments made by section 14 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 7/2015

First Reading         : 12 February 2015

Second and Third Readings : 13 March 2015

Commencement          : 8 May 2015 (section 14)

28. Act 3 of 2017 — Active Mobility Act 2017
     (Amendments made by section 71 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 40/2016

First Reading         : 9 November 2016

Second Reading        : 10 January 2017

Notice of Amendments  : 10 January 2017

Third Reading         : 10 January 2017

Commencement          : 20 June 2017 (section 71(a), (b), (c)
                            and (e))
                            1 May 2018 (section 71(d) and (f))

29. Act 38 of 2018 — Land Transport (Enforcement Measures) Act 2018
     (Amendments made by Part 7 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 29/2018

First Reading         : 6 August 2018

Second and Third Readings : 10 September 2018

Commencement          : 2 January 2019 (Part 7 except
                            sections 75 and 76)
                            3 June 2019 (sections 75 and 76)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
                      vii

30. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 156 of the Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 156 of the Schedule)

31. 2020 Revised Edition — Street Works Act 1995

Operation             : 31 December 2021

32. Act 42 of 2022 — State Lands Protection Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 35/2022

First Reading         : 7 November 2022

Second and Third Readings : 30 November 2022

Commencement          : 1 November 2024

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
.                                viii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
           COMPARATIVE TABLE
         STREET WORKS ACT 1995

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

         2020 Ed.                    1996 Ed.
                   9—(3) [Deleted by Act 12 of 2015]
—
9—(3)                 (4)
                      (5)
   (4)                (5A)
   (5)             32A—(3A)
32A—(4)               (4)
   (5)                (4A)
   (6)                (4B)
   (7)                (5)
   (8)                (6)
   (9)                (7)
   (10)               (8)
   (11)               (9)
   (12)               (10)
   (13)               (11)
   (14)               (12)
   (15)               (13)
   (16)            47—(2A)
47—(3)                (3)
   (4)                (4)
   (5)                (5)
   (6)                (6)
   (7)             54—(2) [Deleted by Act 11 of 2003]
—                     (3)
54—(2)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
                 2020 Ed.  ii
THE SCHEDULE
—                                             1996 Ed.
                            FIRST SCHEDULE
                            SECOND SCHEDULE [Repealed by
                            Act 11 of 2003]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
