THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
             VULNERABLE ADULTS ACT 2018

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
                                                                      2020 Ed.

         Vulnerable Adults Act 2018

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                                PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Administration of Act
     2.  Principles
     3.
     4.

                                        PART 2

                PROTECTION OF VULNERABLE ADULTS

                 Division 1 — Power to assess, enter premises
                              and require information

 5. Exercise of power under this Division
 6. Power to assess
 7. Refusal of assessment
 8. Power to enter premises
 9. Power to obtain information and examine records, etc.

                          Division 2 — Power to remove

10. Power to remove vulnerable adult
11. Committing vulnerable adult to place of temporary care and

         protection or to care of fit person

        Division 3 — Court orders for protection of vulnerable adult

12. Application to court
13. Procedure
14. Court orders
15. Expedited order
16. Contempt of court
17. Supplementary provisions with respect to orders under

         sections 14 and 15

                                                  1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                                  2

          Division 4 — Administering medical or dental treatment to
                                    vulnerable adult

Section
   18. Administering medical or dental treatment to vulnerable adult

                                        PART 3

         PLACES OF TEMPORARY CARE AND PROTECTION,
                 PLACES OF SAFETY, FIT PERSONS AND
                                 REVIEW BOARD

19. Places of temporary care and protection and places of safety
20. Review Board
21. Unlawful removal, etc., of vulnerable adult from place of

         temporary care and protection or place of safety, etc.

                                        PART 4

                       CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

22. Restriction on publication of information leading to
         identification of vulnerable adult, etc.

23. Notification of information relating to individual who is, or is
         suspected to be, vulnerable adult

24. Disclosure of information to and by Director‑General or
         protector

25. Report of qualified assessor, etc., to be admissible in evidence

                                        PART 5

                                  ENFORCEMENT

26. Powers of entry, etc., for enforcement purpose
27. Equipment
28. Power to arrest without warrant
29. Search of arrested persons and power to seize offensive weapons

          PART 6

          MISCELLANEOUS

29A.      Power to record, etc.
30.       Disposal of documents or thing
31.       Offence of obstruction
32.       Offence of providing false information, etc.
33.       Notice to attend court

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
3        Vulnerable Adults Act 2018          2020 Ed.

Section  Protection from personal liability
         Service of documents
   34.   Family Justice Rules
   35.   Regulations
   36.
   37.

An Act to make provision for the safeguarding of vulnerable adults
  from abuse, neglect or self‑neglect, and to provide for matters
  connected with that.

                                                         [19 December 2018]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Vulnerable Adults Act 2018.

Interpretation
 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “abuse” means —
              (a) physical abuse;
              (b) emotional or psychological abuse;
              (c) conduct or behaviour by an individual that in any
                   other way controls or dominates another individual
                   and causes the other individual to fear for his or her
                   safety or wellbeing; or
              (d) conduct or behaviour by an individual that
                   unreasonably deprives, or threatens to unreasonably
                   deprive, another individual of that other individual’s
                   liberty of movement or wellbeing;
      “allied health professional” has the meaning given by section 2
         of the Allied Health Professions Act 2011;
      “assessment” means an interview and examination which
         includes the taking of X‑rays and an individual’s blood and

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               4

      other body samples for testing and analysis, but does not
      include the administering of medical or dental treatment;

   “authorised officer” means a person appointed as an authorised
      officer under section 3(9);

   “auxiliary police officer” means an auxiliary police officer
      appointed under Part 9 of the Police Force Act 2004;

   “coerce”, in relation to an individual, means —

           (a) to compel or force the individual to do, or refrain
                from doing, something; or

           (b) to cause the individual to do something without the
                individual’s consent;

   “court” means the Family Court, except in sections 9(4)(a),
      22(4), (5) and (7), 23(2)(a) and (3), 33 and 35(7) where
      “court” means a court of competent jurisdiction;

   “deputy” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Mental
      Capacity Act 2008;

   “Director‑General” means the Director‑General of Social
      Welfare;

   “donee” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Mental
      Capacity Act 2008;

   “emotional or psychological abuse” means conduct or behaviour
      by an individual —

           (a) that torments, intimidates, harasses or distresses
                another individual; or

                                                                          [Act 21 of 2023 wef 02/01/2025]

           (b) that causes or may reasonably be expected to cause
                mental harm to another individual, including
                thoughts of suicide or inflicting self‑harm;

.         Illustrations

             X experiences emotional or psychological abuse in the following
          situations:

          (a) X has Parkinson’s disease and cannot walk without
               assistance. Her caregiver, Y, does not physically abuse X

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
5  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

        but regularly threatens to beat or harm X’s grandchild (a
        baby) whom X is devoted to.

   (b) X has dementia and lives with her adult son, Y. When Y is
        drunk and does not get what he wants from X, Y shouts at X
        and destroys X’s belongings in X’s presence, causing fear and
        distress to X.

                                                                          [Act 21 of 2023 wef 02/01/2025]

   “enforcement officer” means a public officer who is appointed
      under section 3(5) to be an enforcement officer for the
      purposes of this Act;

   “family member”, in relation to an individual, means —

           (a) a spouse of the individual;

           (b) a child of the individual, whether or not an adopted
                child or a stepchild;

           (c) a parent of the individual;

           (d) a father‑in‑law or mother‑in‑law of the individual;

           (e) a brother or sister of the individual;

           (f) a grandparent or grandchild of the individual; or

           (g) any other individual who, in the opinion of the court,
                should in the circumstances be regarded as a member
                of the individual’s family;

   “fit person” means an individual whom or organisation which
      the court or the Director‑General thinks is competent to
      provide care and protection to a vulnerable adult;

   “manager”, in relation to a place of temporary care and
      protection or a place of safety, includes a director, manager
      or superintendent of that place, or any other individual having
      the management or control of that place;

   “mental capacity assessor” means a person appointed by the
      Director‑General under section 3(4) to assess the mental
      capacity of an individual under or for the purposes of this
      Act;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               6

“neglect”, in relation to an individual, means the lack of
   provision to the individual of essential care (such as but not
   limited to food, clothing, medical aid, lodging and other
   necessities of life), to the extent of causing or being
   reasonably likely to cause personal injury or physical pain
   to, or injury to the mental or physical health of, the
   individual;

“physical abuse” includes conduct or behaviour —

          (a) that causes, or threatens to cause, personal injury or
               physical pain to an individual;

          (b) that coerces, or attempts to coerce, an individual to
               engage in sexual activity; or

          (c) that threatens an individual with the death or injury of
              the individual;

“place of safety” means any premises designated under
   section 19 to be a place of safety;

“place of temporary care and protection” means any premises
   designated under section 19 to be a place of temporary care
   and protection;

“premises” includes part of any premises;

“protector” means a public officer appointed as a protector under
   section 3(2);

“psychiatrist” means a medical practitioner who is registered as
   a psychiatrist in the Register of Specialists under the Medical
   Registration Act 1997;

“qualified assessor” means a person whom the Director‑General
   or a protector reasonably considers qualified to conduct an
   assessment, and includes a mental capacity assessor;

“registered dentist” means a person registered as a fully
   registered dentist under section 14(1) or (2) of the Dental
   Registration Act 1999;

“registered medical practitioner” means a medical practitioner
   registered under the Medical Registration Act 1997;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
7  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

   “registered nurse” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
      Nurses and Midwives Act 1999;

   “relevant support person” means any of the following persons:

   (a) an approved welfare officer appointed under
        section 3(3);

   (b) an allied health professional;

   (c) an auxiliary police officer assisting the
       Director‑General or a protector in performing
       duties under this Act;

   (d) a qualified assessor;

   (e) a registered medical practitioner;

   (f) a registered dentist;

   (g) a registered nurse;

   (h) a paramedic;

   (i) a psychiatrist;

   “self‑neglect”, in relation to an individual, means the failure of
      the individual to perform essential tasks of daily living (such
      as but not limited to eating, dressing and seeking medical aid)
      to care for himself or herself, resulting in the individual —

   (a) living in grossly unsanitary or hazardous conditions;

   (b) suffering from malnutrition or dehydration; or

   (c) suffering from an untreated physical or mental illness
       or injury;

   “vulnerable adult” means an individual who —

   (a) is 18 years of age or older; and

   (b) is, by reason of mental or physical infirmity,
        disability or incapacity, incapable of protecting
        himself or herself from abuse, neglect or self‑neglect;

   “wellbeing”, in relation to an individual, means the individual’s
      wellbeing so far as relating to any of the following:

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               8
.
          (a) personal dignity;

          (b) physical, mental and emotional health;

          (c) control by the individual over his or her day‑to‑day
               life (including over the day‑to‑day care provided by
               another individual and the way in which it is
               provided);

          (d) social, domestic, family and personal relationships;

                                              Illustrations

             The wellbeing of X is unreasonably deprived in the following
          situations:

                   (a) X is wheelchair‑bound and does not lack mental capacity.
                        X is prescribed medication to prevent serious
                        deterioration of his health. X’s caregiver, Y, prevents X
                        from taking the medication by hiding it in a cupboard
                        beyond X’s reach. Y’s conduct has an adverse effect on
                        X’s physical health.

                   (b) X is unable to dress herself. Y, her caregiver, does not
                        dress X after bathing her. Despite X’s protests, Y leaves
                        her unclothed in a room with the windows open so that X
                        is in full view of neighbours walking past the flat. The
                        flat is situated along a common corridor to which
                        members of the public have access. X is deprived of
                        her personal dignity.

                   (c) X’s family member, Y, controls all of X’s daily living
                        activities (including eating, drinking, bathing, toileting
                        and the programmes X watches on the television or
                        listens to on the radio) and refuses to allow X to have
                        contact with any other person or to receive visitors. Y’s
                        control over X’s day‑to‑day life and social relationships
                        has an adverse effect on X’s emotional health.

      “working day” excludes any Sunday and public holiday.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (2) In this Act, an individual or a vulnerable adult who lacks mental
capacity or who is assessed to lack mental capacity is an individual or
a vulnerable adult who lacks capacity or is assessed to lack capacity

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
9  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

(as the case may be) within the meaning of section 4 of the Mental
Capacity Act 2008.

Administration of Act

 3.—(1) The Director‑General is, subject to the general or special
directions of the Minister, responsible for the administration of this
Act.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (2) The Director‑General may appoint any public officer with
suitable qualifications and experience as a protector under this Act.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (3) The Director‑General may appoint a suitably qualified
individual as an approved welfare officer to exercise the powers of
an approved welfare officer under this Act as directed by the
Director‑General or a protector.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (4) The Director‑General may appoint any of the following persons
as a mental capacity assessor to assess whether an individual lacks
mental capacity:

   (a) a registered medical practitioner;

   (b) a psychiatrist;

   (c) a psychologist.

                                                            [30/2019]

 (5) The Director‑General may appoint any public officer with
suitable qualifications and experience as an enforcement officer
under this Act.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (6) The Director‑General must issue to each enforcement officer an
identification card.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (7) Every enforcement officer whose appointment as such ceases
must return to the Director‑General the identification card issued to
him or her under subsection (6).

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               10

 (8) If asked to do so, an enforcement officer must produce his or her
identification card for inspection before exercising a power under this
Act.

 (9) The Director‑General may appoint any of the following persons
as an authorised officer for the purposes of sections 27, 28 and 29:

(a) an enforcement officer;

(b) an auxiliary police officer.

                                                                   [30/2019]

 (10) Any appointment under this section may be subject to such
conditions or limitations as the Director‑General may specify.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (11) Subject to subsection (12), the Director‑General may delegate
the exercise or performance of all or any of the powers conferred or
duties imposed on the Director‑General by or under this Act to any
public officer, except the power of appointment under this section and
power of delegation under this subsection; and any reference in this
Act to the Director‑General includes a reference to such a public
officer.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (12) Any delegation under subsection (11) may be general or in a
particular case and may be subject to such conditions or limitations as
the Director‑General may specify.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (13) The Director‑General, a delegate under subsection (11), a
protector, an approved welfare officer, authorised officer and
enforcement officer who, in the course of his or her duty as the
Director‑General, delegate, protector, approved welfare officer,
authorised officer or enforcement officer (as the case may be), is
taken to be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal
Code 1871 when exercising a power under this Act.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

Principles

 4.—(1) In performing any duty or exercising any power under this
Act in relation to a vulnerable adult, the Director‑General and every
protector, approved welfare officer and enforcement officer must
have regard to the following principles:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
11  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

    (a) the duty is being performed or the power is being exercised
         for the purpose of protecting the vulnerable adult from
         abuse, neglect and self‑neglect;

    (b) a vulnerable adult, where not lacking mental capacity, is
         generally best placed to decide how he or she wishes to live
         and whether or not to accept any assistance;

    (c) if a vulnerable adult lacks mental capacity, the vulnerable
        adult’s views (whether past or present), wishes, feelings,
        values and beliefs, where reasonably ascertainable, must
        be considered;

    (d) regard must be had to whether the purpose for which the
         duty is being performed or the power is being exercised
         can be achieved in a way that is less restrictive of the
         vulnerable adult’s rights and freedom of action;

       (e) in all matters relating to the administration or application
            of this Act, the welfare and best interests of the vulnerable
            adult must be the first and paramount consideration.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (2) Every relevant support person must have regard to the
principles mentioned in subsection (1) when assisting the
Director‑General or a protector in the performance or exercise of
the Director‑General’s or protector’s duties or powers under this Act
or in any other dealing with a vulnerable adult for the purposes of this
Act.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (3) In deciding whether to make an order under this Act in relation
to —

    (a) a vulnerable adult; or

    (b) an individual whom the Director‑General or protector has
         reason to believe is a vulnerable adult and who has
         experienced, or is experiencing or at risk of, abuse, neglect
         or self‑neglect,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               12

the court must have regard to the principles mentioned in
subsection (1), but the court may also have regard to such other
matters as the court thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

                                    PART 2

            PROTECTION OF VULNERABLE ADULTS

             Division 1 — Power to assess, enter premises
                          and require information

Exercise of power under this Division

 5. The Director‑General or a protector may exercise any power
under this Division —

       (a) in relation to an individual, only if —

               (i) the Director‑General or protector has reason to
                   believe that the individual is a vulnerable adult,
                   and the individual has experienced, or is
                   experiencing or at risk of, abuse, neglect or
                   self‑neglect; or

              (ii) the court has made an order under this Division
                   authorising the Director‑General or protector to do
                   so; and

       (b) in relation to a vulnerable adult who is the subject of any
            court order under section 14 or 15, only if —

               (i) the Director‑General or protector has reason to
                   believe that the vulnerable adult has experienced,
                   or is experiencing or at risk of, abuse, neglect or
                   self‑neglect, and the exercise of the power is not
                   inconsistent with any condition or direction specified
                   in the court order; or

              (ii) the court has made an order under this Division
                   authorising the Director‑General or protector to do
                   so.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
13               Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                  2020 Ed.

Power to assess

 6.—(1) The Director‑General or a protector may do all or any of the
following:

    (a) assess an individual or a vulnerable adult;

    (b) cause an individual or a vulnerable adult to be assessed by
         a qualified assessor;

    (c) direct any person to produce an individual or a vulnerable
        adult before the Director‑General, protector or qualified
        assessor, to be assessed in the manner in paragraph (a)
        or (b);

    (d) remove an individual or a vulnerable adult from the place
         where the individual or vulnerable adult is residing or
         staying for the purpose of an assessment in the manner in
         paragraph (a) or (b) —

    (i) if the individual or vulnerable adult consents to the
        removal for that purpose despite that another person
        is preventing the individual’s or vulnerable adult’s
        removal;

    (ii) if the individual or vulnerable adult does not consent
         to the removal but is assessed by a qualified assessor
         to lack the mental capacity to consent; or

             (iii) in accordance with an order of the court under
                   section 7(3).

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (2) Where a donee or deputy is appointed for the individual or
vulnerable adult mentioned in subsection (1)(d)(ii), the
Director‑General, protector or qualified assessor may assess the
individual or vulnerable adult under this section without the consent
of the individual’s or vulnerable adult’s donee or deputy.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (3) Subsection (2) applies whether the donee or deputy is appointed
before, on or after 19 December 2018.

 (4) Where the individual or vulnerable adult is to be assessed at the
place where the individual or vulnerable adult is residing or staying,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               14

the Director‑General or protector may direct any other person present
to leave that place so that the individual or vulnerable adult (as the
case may be) can be assessed without that other person present.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (5) The Director‑General or protector may be accompanied by one
or more relevant support persons to assist with the removal of the
individual or vulnerable adult under subsection (1)(d), and may use
such force as the Director‑General or protector considers necessary to
remove the individual or vulnerable adult or to prevent another
person from obstructing the removal of the individual or vulnerable
adult.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (6) Where an individual or vulnerable adult is removed from a place
under subsection (1)(d), the Director‑General or a protector must, as
soon as practicable after the assessment of the individual or
vulnerable adult, permit the individual or vulnerable adult —

(a) to return to the place;

(b) to return to the care of a family member or any other person
     whom the Director‑General or protector considers
     competent to provide care and protection to the
     individual or vulnerable adult; or

       (c) to return to another place, or to the care of a person, as
            directed by the court under section 7(4).

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (7) A qualified assessor who assesses the individual or vulnerable
adult under this section must submit a report of the assessment to the
Director‑General or a protector.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (8) A person —

(a) who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a
     direction given under subsection (1)(c) or (4); or

(b) who obstructs another person from complying with a
     direction given under subsection (1)(c) or (4) to that other
     person,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
15  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

(9) This section is subject to section 7.

Refusal of assessment

 7.—(1) Where an individual or a vulnerable adult refuses to be
assessed under section 6, the Director‑General or a protector is not
required to exercise any power under that section.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (2) Despite subsection (1), the Director‑General or a protector may
exercise any power under section 6 in relation to the individual or
vulnerable adult —

       (a) if the Director‑General or protector has reason to believe
            that the individual or vulnerable adult concerned lacks the
            mental capacity to refuse the assessment, and the
            Director‑General or protector is satisfied that carrying
            out the assessment would be in the individual’s or
            vulnerable adult’s best interests; or

       (b) in accordance with an order of the court under
            subsection (3).

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (3) Where an individual or a vulnerable adult does not lack mental
capacity but refuses to be assessed under section 6 or refuses to be
removed for the purpose of an assessment under that section, the
court may, on an application made by the Director‑General or a
protector, make an order authorising the Director‑General or a
protector to exercise any power under section 6(1) in relation to that
individual or vulnerable adult, if the court —

       (a) is satisfied, on a balance of probabilities, that the individual
            or vulnerable adult has experienced, or is experiencing or
            at risk of, abuse, neglect or self‑neglect; and

       (b) is of the view that such an order is necessary for the
            protection and safety of the individual or vulnerable adult.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               16

 (4) In making an order under subsection (3), the court may direct
the Director‑General or a protector to return the individual or
vulnerable adult concerned to such place or to the care of such person,
after the individual’s or vulnerable adult’s assessment, as the court
thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

Power to enter premises

 8.—(1) The Director‑General or a protector may, without notice,
enter at any time of the day or night any premises where an individual
or a vulnerable adult is residing or staying for the purpose of
exercising a power under section 6(1)(a), (b) or (d) or 10.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (2) In exercising the power of entry under subsection (1), the
Director‑General or protector may be accompanied by —

       (a) one or more relevant support persons; and

       (b) any other person whom the Director‑General or protector
            reasonably considers necessary to assist the
            Director‑General or protector in exercising the power.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (3) In exercising the power of entry under subsection (1), the
Director‑General or protector may, with any assistance that the
Director‑General or protector considers necessary, break open any
door, window, lock, fastener or any other thing.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

Power to obtain information and examine records, etc.

 9.—(1) This section applies to any person whom the
Director‑General or a protector has reason to believe has
information about —

       (a) whether an individual is a vulnerable adult; or

       (b) whether an individual or a vulnerable adult has
            experienced, or is experiencing or at risk of, abuse,
            neglect or self‑neglect.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
17  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

 (2) The Director‑General or a protector may direct any person in
subsection (1) —

    (a) to give to the Director‑General or protector the information
         in subsection (1) in writing within the time specified in the
         direction; or

       (b) to appear before and give the information in subsection (1)
            to the Director‑General or protector at the time and place
            specified in the direction.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (3) The Director‑General or a protector may, at all reasonable times,
examine and take copies of —

    (a) any health record kept by any person in subsection (1); or

    (b) any record kept by any person in subsection (1) and
         compiled in connection with a social services function,

so far as the record relates to an individual whom the
Director‑General or protector has reason to believe is a vulnerable
adult and has experienced, or is experiencing or at risk of, abuse,
neglect or self‑neglect, or the record relates to a vulnerable adult
whom the Director‑General or protector has reason to believe has
experienced, or is experiencing or at risk of, abuse, neglect or
self‑neglect.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (4) A person who gives information to the Director‑General or a
protector as directed under subsection (2) or gives the
Director‑General or a protector acting under subsection (3) access
to a record —

    (a) is not, by virtue of doing so, to be regarded in any
         proceedings before a court or tribunal or in any other
         respect to have breached any code of professional etiquette
         or ethics, or to have departed from any accepted form of
         professional conduct; and

    (b) to the extent the person has acted in good faith, incurs no
         civil or criminal liability in relation to the giving of the
         information or access to the record.

                                                                                                     [30/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.           Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                      18

(5) If a person —

(a) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a direction
     given to the person under subsection (2) or to give access to
     a record to the Director‑General or a protector acting under
     subsection (3); or

(b) obstructs another person from complying with a direction
     given under subsection (2) to that other person,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (6) A person —

(a) who in compliance or purported compliance with a
     direction given under subsection (2) gives information to
     the Director‑General or a protector; and

(b) who knows that the information given is false or incorrect,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

                      Division 2 — Power to remove

Power to remove vulnerable adult

 10.—(1) The Director‑General or a protector may remove a
vulnerable adult from the place where the vulnerable adult is
residing or staying if the Director‑General or protector is satisfied
on reasonable grounds that the vulnerable adult has experienced, or is
experiencing or at risk of, abuse, neglect or self‑neglect, and —

       (a) the vulnerable adult consents to the removal despite that
            another person is preventing the vulnerable adult’s
            removal;

       (b) the vulnerable adult is assessed by a mental capacity
            assessor to lack the mental capacity to consent; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
19  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

       (c) the vulnerable adult, where not lacking mental capacity,
            does not consent to the removal, but is the subject of an
            order of court under subsection (4).

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (2) Where a donee or deputy is appointed for the vulnerable adult
mentioned in subsection (1)(b), the Director‑General or a protector
may remove the vulnerable adult without the consent of the
vulnerable adult’s donee or deputy.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (3) Subsection (2) applies whether the donee or deputy is appointed
before, on or after 19 December 2018.

 (4) Where a vulnerable adult does not lack mental capacity but
refuses to be removed under subsection (1), the court may, on an
application made by the Director‑General or a protector, make an
order authorising the Director‑General or a protector to remove that
vulnerable adult, if the court —

    (a) is satisfied, on a balance of probabilities, that the
         vulnerable adult has experienced, or is experiencing or at
         risk of, abuse, neglect or self‑neglect; and

       (b) is of the view that the order is necessary for the protection
            and safety of the vulnerable adult.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (5) In exercising the power under subsection (1), the
Director‑General or a protector may be accompanied by one or
more relevant support persons to assist with the removal of a
vulnerable adult, and may use such force as the Director‑General or
protector considers necessary to remove the vulnerable adult or to
prevent another person from obstructing the removal of the
vulnerable adult.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

Committing vulnerable adult to place of temporary care and
protection or to care of fit person

 11.—(1) If a vulnerable adult is removed under section 10 from the
place, the Director‑General or a protector must —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               20

(a) commit the vulnerable adult to a place of temporary care
     and protection or to the care of a fit person; and

(b) within 14 working days after the day of the removal, apply
     to a court under section 12 for an order under section 14 or
     15, or apply for an order under subsection (2), unless the
     Director‑General or protector earlier permits the
     vulnerable adult —

          (i) to return to the place from where the vulnerable adult
              was removed; or

              (ii) to return to the care of a family member or any other
                   person whom the Director‑General or protector
                   considers competent to provide care and protection
                   to the vulnerable adult, if the vulnerable adult has
                   been assessed by a qualified assessor to lack the
                   mental capacity to consent.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (2) If an application to a court cannot be made under section 12 for
an order under section 14 or 15 within the time specified in
subsection (1)(b), the Director‑General or a protector must, within
that specified time —

(a) apply to a court for the custody, charge and care of the
     vulnerable adult during the period before an application
     under section 12 is made and determined; and

       (b) in that application, inform the court the reason for not
            making an application under section 12 within that
            specified time.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (3) The court, on an application made under subsection (2), may
make an order for the custody, charge and care of the vulnerable adult
until an application under section 12 is made and determined.

 (4) If the Director‑General or a protector reasonably believes that
contact between the vulnerable adult removed under section 10 and
another person (Z) is not in the best interests of the vulnerable adult,
the Director‑General or protector may give any of the following
directions to Z:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
21  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

    (a) Z must not contact (by any means) the vulnerable adult
         during the period before a court makes an order under
         section 14 in relation to the vulnerable adult;

       (b) Z may only contact the vulnerable adult under conditions
            or circumstances specified by the Director‑General or
            protector.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (5) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a
direction given to the person under subsection (4) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

    Division 3 — Court orders for protection of vulnerable adult

Application to court

 12.—(1) A person in subsection (2) may apply to the court for one
or more orders under section 14 or 15, in relation to a vulnerable
adult, if the person has reason to believe that —

       (a) the vulnerable adult has experienced, or is experiencing or
            at risk of, abuse, neglect or self‑neglect; and

       (b) the order is, or orders are, necessary for the protection and
            safety of the vulnerable adult.

 (2) The following persons may apply to the court for an order under
section 14 or 15 in relation to a vulnerable adult:

       (a) where the vulnerable adult is assessed by a mental capacity
            assessor to lack the mental capacity to consent to the
            application —

               (i) the Director‑General or a protector may apply for
                   any order under section 14(1) or 15;

              (ii) an approved welfare officer or the vulnerable adult’s
                   donee or deputy (if appointed) may apply for any
                   order under section 14(1)(e), (f), (g) or (h) or 15; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               22

          (iii) a family member of the vulnerable adult may apply
                for any order under section 14(1)(e), (f), (g) or (h) or
                15;

(b) in any other case —

          (i) the Director‑General or a protector may apply for
              any order under section 14(1) or 15;

          (ii) an approved welfare officer may, with the consent of
               the vulnerable adult, apply for any order under
               section 14(1)(e), (f), (g) or (h) or 15;

          (iii) the vulnerable adult may, on his or her own, apply for
                any order under section 14(1)(e), (f), (g) or (h) or 15;
                or

          (iv) a family member of the vulnerable adult may, with
               the consent of the vulnerable adult, apply for any
               order under section 14(1)(e), (f), (g) or (h) or 15.

                                                                                                  [30/2019]

Procedure

 13.—(1) An application to a court under section 7(3), 10(4), 11(2),
12, 17 or 22(4) must —

       (a) be made in the same manner as an application for a
            summons is made to a District Court or Magistrate’s Court
            under the Criminal Procedure Code 2010; and

       (b) be dealt with —

               (i) as if the application is a complaint for the purposes of
                   the Criminal Procedure Code 2010; but

              (ii) in accordance with only such provisions of that
                   Code, and with such provisions of any other written
                   law, as may be prescribed by the Family Justice
                   Rules.

 (2) To avoid doubt, proceedings under section 7(3), 10(4), 11(2),
12, 17 or 22(4) are not to be treated as criminal proceedings.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
23  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), the court may not make any order
under section 7(3), 10(4), 11(3), 14, 15 or 17 without giving the
vulnerable adult an opportunity to be heard.

 (4) No opportunity to be heard needs to be given under
subsection (3) if —

    (a) the vulnerable adult is assessed by a mental capacity
         assessor to lack the mental capacity to make decisions in
         relation to any application for an order under section 11(3),
         14, 15 or 17 concerning the vulnerable adult; or

    (b) the court is of the view that it is not practicable in the
         circumstances to do so.

 (5) The court before which an application under section 7(3), 10(4),
11(2), 12, 17 or 22(4) is heard may make any order as to costs that the
court thinks fit.

 (6) A judge of the court, when determining whether to make an
order under section 14(1)(b) or (j), must sit with 2 advisers from a
panel of advisers nominated by the Minister.

 (7) However, if the court cannot without adjournment be fully
constituted under subsection (6) and an adjournment would be
inexpedient in the interests of justice, the judge may sit with one
adviser or sit alone.

 (8) The functions of the advisers are to inform and advise the court
in relation to —

    (a) the protection and safety of a vulnerable adult; or

    (b) the appropriateness of making an order in respect of a
         vulnerable adult under section 14(1)(b) or (j).

Court orders

 14.—(1) If the court is satisfied, on a balance of probabilities, that
the circumstances mentioned in section 12(1)(a) and (b) exist for a
vulnerable adult, the court may make one or more of the following
orders in relation to the vulnerable adult:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               24

(a) an order committing the vulnerable adult to a place of
     temporary care and protection or the care of a fit person for
     a period not exceeding 6 months;

(b) an order committing the vulnerable adult to a place of
     safety or the care of a fit person for a specified period
     exceeding 6 months where the court is satisfied that it is in
     the best interests of the vulnerable adult to be so
     committed;

          (c) an order requiring a person to produce the vulnerable adult
              at a specified medical facility or specified dental facility
              for medical or dental treatment (as the case may be) that is
              necessary to enable committal of the vulnerable adult to a
              place of temporary care and protection or a place of safety
              or to the care of a fit person;

(d) an order placing the vulnerable adult under the supervision
     of a protector, an approved welfare officer or another
     person appointed by the court, for a specified period;

          (e) where the vulnerable adult has experienced or is
              experiencing abuse or likely to be abused by any person
              (called in this section the abuser), an order restraining the
              abuser from abusing or further abusing the vulnerable
              adult;

          (f) an order granting the vulnerable adult the right of exclusive
              occupation of the premises or a specified part of the
              premises in which the vulnerable adult ordinarily resides,
              to the exclusion of the abuser or any other person;

(g) an order prohibiting a person from entering and remaining
     in, for a specified period, an area outside the vulnerable
     adult’s place of residence or any other place frequented by
     the vulnerable adult;

(h) an order prohibiting a person from visiting or
     communicating with the vulnerable adult;

          (i) an order requiring one or more persons, including the
              vulnerable adult, to attend counselling and such other
              programme provided by a body as directed by the court;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
25  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

    (j) subject to subsection (2), where the condition of the
        vulnerable adult’s residence poses a risk to the safety or
        health of the vulnerable adult, an order —

    (i) authorising the Director‑General, a protector or
        another person to make, with such assistance as the
        Director‑General, protector or other person may
        reasonably require, the residence a safe living
        environment; and

              (ii) authorising the disposal by the Director‑General,
                   protector or other person of any article or thing in the
                   residence, with or without the consent of the owner
                   of that article or thing, to make the residence a safe
                   living environment.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the court may only make an order
under subsection (1)(j) —

    (a) with the consent of every owner of the residence and of the
         vulnerable adult; or

    (b) where the owner or owners (if there is more than one
         owner) of the residence cannot be located after reasonable
         attempts to locate the owner or owners (as the case may be)
         have been made by the Director‑General or a protector —

    (i) with the consent of the vulnerable adult; and

    (ii) after a notice by advertisement of the proposed order
         has been published in —

    (A) an English newspaper and one other newspaper
         of such language as directed by the court (both
         of which must be in circulation in Singapore);
         or

    (B) any other form as the court may direct,

    (ii) and the prescribed period after such publication has
         lapsed without any owner objecting to the proposed
         order.

                                                                                           [30/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               26

(3) The court may only make an order under subsection (1)(j) —

(a) without the consent of the vulnerable adult —

          (i) if the vulnerable adult lacks the mental capacity to
              consent; or

          (ii) if the court is of the view that such an order is
               necessary for the protection and safety of the
               vulnerable adult; and

(b) without the consent of an owner of the residence —

          (i) if the owner lacks the mental capacity to consent; or

          (ii) if the court is of the view that such an order is
               necessary for the protection and safety of the
               vulnerable adult.

 (4) For the purposes of deciding whether the circumstances
mentioned in section 12(1)(a) and (b) exist in relation to a
vulnerable adult, the court may —

(a) require a person to produce the vulnerable adult before the
     court;

(b) require a person to give information, or any other
     necessary assistance, to the court about the vulnerable
     adult’s family background, general conduct, home
     environment, educational or vocational record, medical
     history and state of physical and mental health and
     wellbeing, to enable the court to deal with the case in the
     best interests of the vulnerable adult;

          (c) require the Director‑General, a protector or a mental
              capacity assessor to conduct an assessment or investigation
              of all or any of the following:

          (i) the vulnerable adult;

          (ii) any person who provides care for or lives with the
               vulnerable adult;

(d) require the person who carried out an assessment or
     investigation under paragraph (c) to submit a written report

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
27  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

    to the court stating the results of the assessment or the
    findings of the investigation, as the case may be; and

       (e) adjourn the matter, and make any interim order the court
            considers appropriate, including but not limited to an order
            about a matter mentioned in subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (5) The court may disclose to the Director‑General or a protector
any information obtained under subsection (4)(b) and any report
submitted under subsection (4)(d), if the court is satisfied that the
disclosure is necessary for the protection and safety of the vulnerable
adult who is the subject of the information or report.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (6) The court may order the report submitted under
subsection (4)(d) or a redacted version of that report be given to a
person against whom an order under subsection (1) is to be made.

 (7) The court may, in making an order under subsection (1), impose
conditions or give directions as the court thinks fit for the purpose of
ensuring the protection and safety of the vulnerable adult who is the
subject of the order.

 (8) The court, in making an order under subsection (1)(e), may
include a provision that the abuser must not incite or assist any other
person to abuse the vulnerable adult.

 (9) An order made under subsection (1)(f) does not affect any title
or interest that the person against whom the order is made or any other
person might have in the residence other than to the extent provided
for in the order.

 (10) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
an order made under subsection (1)(e), (f), (g) or (h) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable —

    (a) on the first conviction in relation to an order under
         subsection (1)(e), (f), (g) or (h), to a fine not exceeding
         $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
         12 months or to both; and

                                                                        [Act 21 of 2023 wef 02/01/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               28

       (b) on a second or subsequent conviction for failing to comply
            with another order made under subsection (1)(e), (f), (g) or
            (h) (as the case may be), to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or
            to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 18 months or to
            both.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2023 wef 02/01/2025]

 (11) A reference to an offence under subsection (10) includes a
reference to an abetment of the offence.

(12) A person who obstructs —

(a) the compliance by a person with an order made under
     subsection (1)(a), (b), (c), (d), (i) or (j); or

(b) any person assisting the Director‑General, a protector or
     another person in the compliance with an order made under
     subsection (1)(a), (b), (c), (d), (i) or (j),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (13) A person who —

(a) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with an order
     made by the court under subsection (4)(a), (b) or (e); or

(b) obstructs the carrying out of an assessment or investigation
     ordered by the court under subsection (4)(c),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

(14) In this section, “owner” —

(a) for residence that is a lot comprised in a strata title plan
     under the Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967, means any person
     who is the registered subsidiary proprietor of the lot under
     that Act;

(b) for residence that is a flat in any building in a housing
     estate of the Housing and Development Board, means any

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
29  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

    owner of the flat as defined under the Housing and
    Development Act 1959;

    (c) for residence that is a lot in any subdivided building other
        than a subdivided building referred to in paragraph (a) or
        (b), means any person who is the registered proprietor in
        the land‑register under the Land Titles Act 1993 of the fee
        simple, estate in perpetuity or leasehold estate of that lot;

    (d) for residence that constitutes premises which are not
         subdivided, means any person who is the registered
         proprietor in the land‑register under the Land Titles
         Act 1993 of the fee simple, estate in perpetuity or
         leasehold estate of those premises in the land‑register
         under the Land Titles Act 1993; and

    (e) for residence that constitutes premises not falling under
        paragraphs (a) to (d), means the person for the time being
        receiving the rent of the premises, whether on the person’s
        own account or as agent or trustee or as receiver, or who
        would receive the same if the premises were let to a tenant,
        and includes the person whose name is entered in the
        Valuation List prepared under section 10 of the Property
        Tax Act 1960 as the owner of the premises or a mortgagee
        in possession.

Expedited order

 15.—(1) This section applies if an application is made in relation to
a vulnerable adult for an order mentioned in section 14(1)(e), (f), (g)
or (h), and the court is satisfied, on a balance of probabilities, that the
vulnerable adult is experiencing, or is in imminent danger of, abuse,
neglect or self‑neglect.

 (2) The court may make the order (called in this Act an expedited
order) even if —

       (a) the application is not served on the person against whom an
            order mentioned in section 14(1)(e), (f), (g) or (h) is to be
            made (called in this section the respondent) or is not served
            on the respondent within a reasonable time before the
            hearing of the application; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               30

(b) where the application has been served on the respondent —
     the respondent does not appear at the hearing of the
     application.

 (3) An expedited order takes effect in respect of the person to whom
the order applies —

(a) from the date on which the order is served on that person;
     or

(b) if the court specifies a later date on which the order is to
     take effect — the later date.

 (4) An expedited order ceases to have effect on the earlier of the
following dates:

(a) the date that is 28 days after the date the order is made;

(b) the date the court decides the application under section 12.

 (5) Despite subsection (4), the court may extend the duration of the
expedited order.

 (6) The expiry of an expedited order does not affect the making of a
further expedited order.

 (7) Section 14(7), (8) and (9) applies, with the necessary
modifications, in relation to an expedited order and to the making
of an expedited order under this section.

 (8) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
an expedited order made under subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

 (9) A reference to an offence under subsection (8) includes a
reference to an abetment of the offence.

Contempt of court

 16.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), sections 14(10) and (13)(a) and
15(8) do not affect the powers of the court in relation to the
punishment for a contempt of court.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
31  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

 (2) Where a person is convicted of an offence under section 14(10)
or (13)(a) or 15(8) in respect of any non‑compliance with an order or
expedited order, that non‑compliance is not punishable as a contempt
of court.

 (3) A person cannot be convicted of an offence under
section 14(10) or (13)(a) or 15(8) in respect of any
non‑compliance with an order or expedited order which has been
punished as a contempt of court.

 (4) The following persons may apply for a contempt of court in
respect of the non‑compliance with an order under section 14
(including the non‑compliance with such an order made on an
expedited basis under section 15):

    (a) subject to subsection (5), the Director‑General or a
         protector may apply for a contempt of court in respect of
         the non‑compliance with an order under section 14(1)(e);

    (b) subject to subsection (5), a family member of the
         vulnerable adult to whom an order under
         section 14(1)(e) relates may apply for a contempt of
         court in respect of the non‑compliance with the order;

    (c) the Director‑General or a protector may apply for a
        contempt of court in respect of the non‑compliance with
        an order under section 14(1)(i);

       (d) the vulnerable adult to whom an order under
            section 14(1)(e), (f) or (g) or (4)(a), (b), (c) or (e) relates
            may apply for a contempt of court in respect of the
            non‑compliance with the order.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (5) The Director‑General, a protector or family member of the
vulnerable adult concerned may only make an application mentioned
in subsection (4)(a) or (b) if —

    (a) the Director‑General, protector or family member has
         obtained the consent of the vulnerable adult before making
         the application; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               32

       (b) at the time the application is made, the vulnerable adult is
            assessed by a mental capacity assessor to lack the mental
            capacity to consent to the application.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (6) The Director‑General or protector is not required to obtain the
consent of the vulnerable adult concerned before making an
application mentioned in subsection (4)(c).

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (7) To avoid doubt —

(a) the Director‑General or a protector may make an
     application mentioned in subsection (4)(a) or (c) even if
     the Director‑General or protector did not earlier apply for
     the order or expedited order (as the case may be) that is the
     subject of the application;

(b) a family member may make an application mentioned in
     subsection (4)(b) even if the family member did not earlier
     apply for the order or expedited order (as the case may be)
     that is subject of the application; and

          (c) the vulnerable adult may make an application mentioned in
              subsection (4)(d) even if the vulnerable adult did not earlier
              apply for the order or expedited order (as the case may be)
              that is the subject of the application.

                                                                                                          [30/2019]

Supplementary provisions with respect to orders under
sections 14 and 15

 17.—(1) On an application by a person mentioned in
subsection (2), the court may, at any time before the expiry of an
order made under section 14(1) or 15, vary, suspend or revoke the
order if the court is satisfied it would be in the best interests of the
vulnerable adult in relation to whom the order is made.

 (2) Subject to subsection (4), the following persons may apply to
the court for a variation, suspension or revocation of any of the
following orders:

       (a) for an order under section 14(1)(a) or (b), the
            Director‑General or a protector;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
33  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

    (b) for an order under section 14(1)(c) —

    (i) the Director‑General or a protector; or

    (ii) the person against whom the order is made;

    (c) for an order under section 14(1)(d) —

    (i) the Director‑General or a protector;

    (ii) an approved welfare officer (whether or not the
         approved welfare officer had earlier applied for that
         order); or

    (iii) the vulnerable adult or any other person to whom the
          order relates;

    (d) for an order under section 14(1)(e), (f), (g) or (h) or 15 —

    (i) the Director‑General or a protector;

    (ii) an approved welfare officer if an approved welfare
         officer had earlier applied under section 12 for that
         order;

    (iii) the vulnerable adult to whom the order relates, or the
          vulnerable adult’s donee or deputy (as the case may
          be) if the vulnerable adult lacks mental capacity;

    (iv) a family member of the vulnerable adult if that
         family member had earlier applied under section 12
         for that order; or

    (v) the person against whom the order is made;

    (e) for an order under section 14(1)(i) —

    (i) the Director‑General or a protector; or

    (ii) the person or any of the persons to whom the order
         relates if the application under this section is to
         suspend or revoke the order;

    (f) for an order under section 14(1)(j), the Director‑General or
        a protector.

                                                                                                    [30/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               34

 (3) The Director‑General or a protector may, under subsection (2),
apply for a variation, suspension or revocation of an order even if the
Director‑General or protector did not earlier apply for that order.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (4) An approved welfare officer or a family member of the
vulnerable adult may apply to the court for a variation, suspension
or revocation of an order mentioned in subsection (2)(c) or (d) (as the
case may be) if —

(a) the vulnerable adult consents to the application; or

(b) the vulnerable adult is assessed by a mental capacity
     assessor to lack the mental capacity to consent to the
     application.

     Division 4 — Administering medical or dental treatment to
                               vulnerable adult

Administering medical or dental treatment to vulnerable adult

 18.—(1) The Director‑General or a protector may require a
vulnerable adult to be produced before a registered medical
practitioner or registered dentist for any necessary medical or
dental treatment, as the case may be —

       (a) before or during the vulnerable adult’s period of committal
            in a place of temporary care and protection or under the
            care of a fit person (as the case may be) under
            section 11(1)(a); and

       (b) during the vulnerable adult’s period of committal in a place
            of temporary care and protection or place of safety, or
            under the care of a fit person (as the case may be) if the
            vulnerable adult is the subject of an order of court under
            section 14(1)(a) or (b).

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (2) Any treatment mentioned in subsection (1) may be administered
to the vulnerable adult concerned only with the vulnerable adult’s
consent unless —

       (a) the vulnerable adult is assessed by a mental capacity
            assessor to lack the mental capacity to consent, and the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
35  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

    registered medical practitioner or registered dentist
    reasonably believes that it is in the vulnerable adult’s
    best interests to receive the treatment; or

    (b) it is not practicable to obtain consent from the vulnerable
         adult, and the registered medical practitioner or registered
         dentist —

    (i) reasonably believes that a medical or dental
        emergency (as the case may be) exists; and

    (ii) is of the view that it is in the vulnerable adult’s best
         interests to receive the treatment.

 (3) If a donee or deputy has been appointed for the vulnerable adult
mentioned in subsection (2)(a), a registered medical practitioner or
registered dentist may administer the medical or dental treatment (as
the case may be) to the vulnerable adult under that subsection without
the consent of the vulnerable adult’s donee or deputy (as the case may
be) if the registered medical practitioner or registered dentist is of the
view —

    (a) that the consent cannot be obtained within a reasonable
         time; or

    (b) that the consent is being unreasonably withheld by the
         donee or deputy.

 (4) Subsection (3) applies whether the donee or deputy is appointed
before, on or after 19 December 2018.

                                    PART 3

     PLACES OF TEMPORARY CARE AND PROTECTION,
             PLACES OF SAFETY, FIT PERSONS AND
                             REVIEW BOARD

Places of temporary care and protection and places of safety

 19.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, the Minister may, by
notification in the Gazette, designate any premises in Singapore as —

       (a) a place of temporary care and protection for the care and
            protection of vulnerable adults from abuse, neglect or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               36

          self‑neglect for an interim period during which
          assessments and investigations under this Act are carried
          out and longer‑term care arrangements for the safety of the
          vulnerable adults are planned; or

(b) a place of safety for the care and protection of vulnerable
     adults over the longer term.

 (2) The Minister may, at any time, cancel a designation made under
subsection (1) —

(a) if the Minister is satisfied that the place of temporary care
     and protection or place of safety (as the case may be) is not
     managed in a manner to continue as one;

(b) if the Minister thinks it is in the public interest to do so; or

          (c) for any other reasons as may be prescribed.

 (3) Notice of the cancellation of a designation must be published in
the Gazette.

 (4) The manager of a place of temporary care and protection or a
place of safety must take such security measures as are necessary to
ensure the protection and safety of any vulnerable adult residing in
the place of temporary care and protection or place of safety, as the
case may be.

(5) In this section, “security measure” means —

(a) any measure, equipment or procedure to carry out
     identification, or screening and re‑screening and
     clearing, of any person entering a place of temporary
     care and protection or place of safety;

(b) any measure or procedure to be used within a place of
     temporary care and protection or place of safety —

          (i) to control access at the place of temporary care and
              protection or place of safety; or

          (ii) to detect and deter unauthorised access into the place
               of temporary care and protection or place of safety
               by any person; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
37  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

    (c) any measure or procedure for responding to and
        investigating any incident or threat relating to the
        protection and safety of a vulnerable adult residing at a
        place of temporary care and protection or place of safety.

Review Board

 20.—(1) The Minister may appoint any person as a member of the
Review Board for any period that the Minister thinks fit.

 (2) The functions of the Review Board are as follows:

       (a) for the purposes of ensuring that a proper care plan is in
            place for a vulnerable adult, review cases of vulnerable
            adults committed to —

               (i) a place of temporary care and protection or place of
                   safety; or

              (ii) the care of a fit person, but only if the fit person is an
                   organisation and the vulnerable adult was committed
                   to the care of the organisation under an order of the
                   court under section 14;

       (b) advise the Director‑General on whether a vulnerable adult
            who has been committed to a place of temporary care and
            protection or place of safety, or to the care of a fit person
            that is an organisation may be discharged from the place or
            care at any time before the completion of the period of
            committal.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (3) For the purposes of carrying out the Review Board’s functions
under subsection (2) —

       (a) every member of the Review Board may at any time enter
            any place of temporary care and protection, place of safety
            or the premises of a fit person that is an organisation, and
            make such inquiry or examination as is necessary; and

       (b) the Review Board must submit such reports as the Minister
            may require.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               38

(4) A person who —

(a) refuses to allow a member of the Review Board entry to
     any place of temporary care and protection, place of safety
     or premises mentioned in subsection (3)(a); or

(b) hinders or obstructs the member from entering the place or
     premises, after the member’s identity is reasonably
     established,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (5) For the purposes of this section, a proper care plan must meet
such requirements as the Director‑General may specify.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

Unlawful removal, etc., of vulnerable adult from place of
temporary care and protection or place of safety, etc.

 21. A person who —

       (a) without lawful authority, removes a vulnerable adult from
            a place of temporary care and protection or place of safety
            to which, or the custody of the fit person to whose care, the
            vulnerable adult has been committed under this Act;

       (b) knowingly assists or induces, directly or indirectly, a
            vulnerable adult to leave or be removed from a place of
            temporary care and protection or place of safety to which,
            or the fit person to whose care, the vulnerable adult has
            been committed under this Act;

       (c) knowingly —

               (i) harbours or conceals a vulnerable adult who has
                   escaped from a place of temporary care and
                   protection or place of safety to which, or the fit
                   person to whose care, the vulnerable adult has been
                   committed under this Act;

              (ii) prevents the vulnerable adult from returning to a
                   place of temporary care and protection or place of
                   safety to which, or the fit person to whose care, the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
39  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

    vulnerable adult has been committed under this Act;
    or

    (iii) assists any other person in doing any of the acts
          mentioned in sub‑paragraphs (i) and (ii); or

    (d) obstructs the removal from, or committal of a vulnerable
         adult to, a place of temporary care and protection, place of
         safety or the care of a fit person carried out under this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                    PART 4

                   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

Restriction on publication of information leading to
identification of vulnerable adult, etc.

 22.—(1) A person must not, without the Director‑General’s
approval, publish or broadcast any information or picture that
identifies, or is likely to lead to the identification of —

       (a) an individual who has been or is the subject of any
            investigation, examination, assessment or treatment under
            this Act relating to whether the individual is a vulnerable
            adult experiencing or at risk of abuse, neglect or
            self‑neglect;

       (b) a vulnerable adult who has been committed to a place of
            temporary care and protection or place of safety or to the
            care of a fit person under this Act; or

       (c) a vulnerable adult who is the subject of an order made by a
            court under this Act.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (2) Also, a person must not, without the Director‑General’s
approval, publish or broadcast any information or picture that
identifies, or is likely to lead to the identification of —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               40

(a) a place of temporary care and protection or place of safety
     to which an individual or a vulnerable adult mentioned in
     subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c) is committed, or the location of
     such a place of temporary care and protection or place of
     safety; or

       (b) a fit person under whose care an individual or a vulnerable
            adult mentioned in subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c) is placed, or
            the location of the premises of such a fit person.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (3) Nothing in subsection (2) prevents a place of temporary care
and protection, place of safety or fit person from publishing its, his or
her address in any publication, or on the website, of the place of
temporary care and protection, place of safety or fit person, as the
case may be.

 (4) The court may, on an application made by the Director‑General
or a protector, order a person to remove the publication, or cease the
broadcast, of any information or picture that is in contravention of
subsection (1) or (2).

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (5) The court may make an order under subsection (4) even if —

(a) the application is not served on the person against whom
     the order is to be made (called in this section the
     respondent) or is not served on the respondent within a
     reasonable time before the hearing of the application; or

(b) where the application has been served on the respondent —
     the respondent does not appear at the hearing of the
     application,

so long as the court is satisfied, on a balance of probabilities, that the
order is necessary for the protection and safety of the individual or
vulnerable adult concerned.

 (6) If any information or picture is published or broadcast in
contravention of subsection (1) or (2) —

(a) in the case of the publication of any information or picture
     as part of a newspaper or periodical publication, every

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
41  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

    proprietor, editor, publisher and distributor of the
    newspaper or periodical publication;

    (b) in the case of the publication of any information or picture
         otherwise than as part of a newspaper or periodical
         publication, every person who publishes or distributes it; or

    (c) in the case of the broadcast of any information or picture,
        every person who transmits or provides the programme in
        which the information or picture is broadcast and every
        person having functions in relation to the programme
        corresponding to those of the editor of a newspaper or
        periodical publication,

shall each be guilty of an offence and shall each be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 and, in the case of a second
or subsequent conviction, to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

 (7) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (6), the court
may, whether or not there is a conviction for the offence, order a
person to remove the publication, or cease the broadcast, of any
information or picture that is in contravention of subsection (1) or (2).

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2023 wef 02/01/2025]

 (8) To avoid doubt, this section does not apply to, or in relation to,
the publication of a notice mentioned in section 14(2)(b)(ii).

(9) In this section —

    “broadcast” means sounds or visual images —

    (a) broadcast by wireless telegraphy, or by means of a
         high frequency distribution system over wire or other
         paths provided by a material substance, and intended
         for general reception;

    (b) broadcast through the Internet or any website, web
         service or Internet application, whether or not
         intended for general reception; or

    (c) broadcast through any messaging system;

    “messaging system” means any system that enables the
       transmission of short text messages, or of any visual
       communication, voice communication or electronic mail —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               42

          (a) from a digital mobile telephone to another digital
               mobile telephone; or

          (b) from an electronic mail address to a digital mobile
               telephone, and the other way around;

“publish”, in relation to any information or picture, means to
   bring the information or picture to the notice of the public or a
   section of the public by any means, including (to avoid doubt)
   through —

          (a) the Internet or any website, web service or Internet
               application; or

          (b) any messaging system.

Notification of information relating to individual who is, or is
suspected to be, vulnerable adult

 23.—(1) Any person who knows or has reason to suspect that an
individual is a vulnerable adult who has experienced, or is
experiencing or at risk of, abuse, neglect or self‑neglect may notify
any of the following persons of the facts and circumstances on which
the person’s knowledge or suspicion is based:

       (a) the Director‑General;

       (b) a protector;

       (c) any other person authorised by the Director‑General or a
            protector to receive such information.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (2) A person who makes a notification under subsection (1) —

       (a) must not, by virtue of doing so, be regarded in any
            proceedings before any court or tribunal or in any other
            respect to have breached any code of professional etiquette
            or ethics, or to have departed from any accepted form of
            professional conduct; and

       (b) insofar as the person has acted with reasonable care and in
            good faith, incurs no civil or criminal liability in respect of
            the notification or the provision of any information
            contained in the notification.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
43  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

 (3) Any person appearing as a witness in any proceedings in any
court or tribunal or before a person authorised by law to hear evidence
must not be compelled —

    (a) to disclose the identity of any person who has made a
         notification under subsection (1), or any information likely
         to lead to the disclosure of the identity of such a person; or

    (b) to produce any report or document, or any part of a report
         or document, which is likely to identify, any person who
         has made a notification under subsection (1).

Disclosure of information to and by Director‑General or
protector

 24.—(1) Subject to subsection (2) and any express restriction
imposed by or under any other written law, a body or person to whom
this section applies may disclose to the Director‑General or a
protector any information received by that body or person under or
for the purposes of any written law, where the disclosure is made by
the body or person for the purpose of enabling or assisting the
Director‑General or protector to perform any of the
Director‑General’s or protector’s duties under this Act.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the Director‑General or protector may
disclose to a body or person to whom this section applies any
information received by the Director‑General or protector under or
for the purposes of this Act, where the disclosure is made by the
Director‑General or protector —

       (a) for any purpose connected with the performance of any of
            the Director‑General’s or protector’s duties under this Act;
            or

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2023 wef 02/01/2025]

       (b) for the purpose of enabling or assisting that body or person
            to perform any of that body’s or person’s duties.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (3) This section applies to the following bodies and persons:

       (a) any Government department;

       (b) any statutory body;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               44

          (c) any police officer;

(d) such other body or person as may be prescribed.

 (4) Nothing in this section is to be construed as affecting any power
of disclosure exercisable apart from this section.

Report of qualified assessor, etc., to be admissible in evidence

 25. A copy of the report prepared by —

       (a) a qualified assessor under section 6(7); or

       (b) the Director‑General or a protector who has assessed an
            individual or a vulnerable adult under section 6,

is admissible in any proceedings under this Act as evidence of the
opinion of the qualified assessor, Director‑General or protector (as
the case may be) and of the facts upon which his or her opinion is
based in relation to any matter about the individual or vulnerable
adult contained in the report.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

                                   PART 5

          ENFORCEMENT

Powers of entry, etc., for enforcement purpose

 26.—(1) The Director‑General or an enforcement officer may
exercise all or any of the powers in this section for the purpose of —

(a) ascertaining whether an order of court under section 14 or
     15 is being complied with or has been contravened; or

(b) investigating any offence under this Act.

                                                                   [30/2019]

(2) The Director‑General or an enforcement officer may —

(a) at any time of the day or night without notice, enter, inspect
     and search any premises if the Director‑General or
     enforcement officer reasonably believes that evidence of
     the commission of an offence under this Act, or the
     non‑compliance with, or a contravention of, an order of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
45  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

    court under section 14 or 15, can be found in those
    premises;

    (b) photograph or film, or make a record or sketches of, any
         part of the premises mentioned in paragraph (a), or any
         person or thing at the premises;

    (c) inspect and make copies of, or take extracts from, any
        document or thing which is in the possession or under the
        control of any person for the purpose mentioned in
        subsection (1) even though the person’s prior consent
        has not been obtained;

    (d) seize any document or thing which the Director‑General or
         enforcement officer reasonably believes to be the subject
         matter of, or to be connected with the commission of, an
         offence under this Act, or the non‑compliance with, or a
         contravention of, an order of court under section 14 or 15;

                                                                        [Act 21 of 2023 wef 02/01/2025]

    (e) issue a written notice requiring any person whom the
         Director‑General or enforcement officer reasonably
         believes to be in possession of any document or thing
         relevant to the investigation of an offence under this Act, or
         the non‑compliance with, or a contravention of, an order of
         court under section 14 or 15 —

    (i) to produce without charge, that document or thing at
        the time and place stated in the notice; or

    (ii) to give the Director‑General or enforcement officer,
         without charge, access to that document or thing;

    (f) issue a written notice requiring any person within the limits
        of Singapore, who appears to be acquainted with any of the
        facts or circumstances of the matter under investigation, to
        attend before the Director‑General or enforcement officer
        at the time and place stated in the notice;

    (g) require any person whom the Director‑General or
         enforcement officer reasonably believes to be acquainted
         with any of the facts or circumstances of the matter under
         investigation, to answer any question to the best of the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               46

          person’s knowledge, information and belief, immediately
          or at such place and time specified in writing; and

(h) take any step which appears to be necessary to preserve or
     prevent interference with any document or thing which the
     Director‑General or enforcement officer considers to be
     the subject matter of, or to be connected with —

          (i) the commission of an offence under this Act; or

              (ii) the non‑compliance with, or a contravention of, an
                   order of court under section 14 or 15.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2)(c), (d), (e) and (h), if any
document or information required by the Director‑General or
enforcement officer is kept in electronic form —

(a) the power of the Director‑General or enforcement officer
     to inspect the document or obtain information includes the
     power to —

          (i) access any computer or other equipment (including a
              mobile telephone) in which the document or material
              is stored; and

          (ii) require any person having charge of, or otherwise
               concerned with the operation of, the computer or
               equipment to provide assistance in gaining such
               access; and

(b) the power of the Director‑General or enforcement officer
     to seize such document includes the power to —

          (i) make copies of the document in legible or electronic
              form; and

              (ii) transfer the information from the document or
                   material to a disc, tape or other storage device.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (4) If the Director‑General or enforcement officer under
subsection (3)(b) is unable to make copies of the document or
transfer the document, the Director‑General or enforcement officer
may —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
47  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

    (a) seize the computer or other equipment (including a mobile
         telephone) in which the document or information is stored
         as evidence in proceedings for an offence under this Act;
         and

       (b) require any person having charge of, or otherwise
            concerned with the operation of, the computer or
            equipment to disclose any password or access code for
            gaining access to the document or information held in the
            computer or equipment.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (5) If free entry or access to the premises cannot be obtained under
subsection (2)(a), the Director‑General or enforcement officer may,
with any assistance that the Director‑General or enforcement officer
considers necessary, break open any window, lock or fastener, or use
any other reasonable means to gain entry or access into the premises.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (6) If any person fails to comply with a written notice issued to the
person under subsection (2)(e) or (f), the Director‑General or
enforcement officer may report the failure to a Magistrate who
may then issue a warrant ordering the person to comply with the
written notice.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (7) Any person examined under subsection (2)(g) is bound to state
truly what the person knows of the facts and circumstances
concerning matters under this Act, except that the person need not
say anything that might expose the person to a criminal charge,
penalty or forfeiture.

 (8) A statement made by a person examined under subsection (2)(g)
must —

    (a) be reduced to writing;

    (b) be read over to the person;

    (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted in
        a language that the person understands; and

    (d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by the person.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.   Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                              48

Equipment

 27. The Director‑General or an authorised officer may carry or have
in his or her possession or under his or her control any truncheon,
handcuffs or other similar means of restraint for the purposes of
executing his or her duties under this Act.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

Power to arrest without warrant

 28.—(1) The Director‑General or an authorised officer may arrest,
without warrant, any individual whom the Director‑General or
authorised officer reasonably suspects, is committing or has
committed an offence under section 14(10) or 15(8).

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (2) If the Director‑General or an authorised officer has reason to
believe that an individual mentioned in subsection (1) is inside any
place, the Director‑General or authorised officer may enter that place
for the purpose of arresting that individual.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (3) In making an arrest under this section, the Director‑General or
authorised officer may use handcuffs or any other similar means of
restraint on an individual to prevent the individual from —

(a) inflicting bodily injury to himself or herself, or others;

(b) damaging any property;

          (c) creating any disturbance; or

(d) escaping from custody.

                                                                   [30/2019]

 (4) The Director‑General or an authorised officer making an arrest
under this section must comply with sections 68, 75 and 76 of the
Criminal Procedure Code 2010 as if he or she were a police officer.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (5) Any individual arrested under this section must be brought to a
police station as soon as reasonably practicable, and may, if required
by the Director‑General, a police officer or an authorised officer, be

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
49  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

released on bail, or on the individual’s own bond, to appear before a
Magistrate.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2023 wef 02/01/2025]

 (6) The individual who is brought before a Magistrate’s Court
under subsection (5) may —

    (a) be ordered to be detained in custody until he or she can be
         tried; or

    (b) if so required by the Magistrate, be released on bail, or on
         the individual’s own bond with surety, to appear before a
         Magistrate’s Court.

Search of arrested persons and power to seize offensive
weapons

 29.—(1) The Director‑General or an authorised officer making an
arrest under section 28 may exercise the powers under sections 78 and
79 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 as if he or she were a police
officer.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (2) The Director‑General or an authorised officer searching any
individual under this section must comply with section 83 of the
Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

                                    PART 6

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Power to record, etc.

 29A.—(1) A relevant person may take photographs, or make an
audio or video recording of any person, place or thing if the relevant
person reasonably believes that the taking of the photographs or the
making of the recording is relevant to and necessary for the exercise
of the relevant person’s functions under this Act.

 (2) In this section, “relevant person” means the Director‑General, a
protector, an approved welfare officer or an authorised officer.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2023 wef 02/01/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               50

Disposal of documents or thing

 30.—(1) Any document or thing taken into possession or seized
under this Act must —

(a) where the document or thing is produced in any criminal
     trial, be dealt with in accordance with section 364 of the
     Criminal Procedure Code 2010; or

(b) in any other case, be returned to the owner or reported to a
     Magistrate.

 (2) Where the report of any document or thing is made to a
Magistrate under subsection (1)(b), the Magistrate may order the
document or thing —

(a) to be forfeited; or

(b) to be disposed of in any manner that the Magistrate thinks
     fit.

 (3) Nothing in this section affects any right to retain or dispose any
property which may exist in law apart from this section.

Offence of obstruction

 31. A person who refuses to give access to, or obstructs, hinders or
delays —

       (a) the Director‑General;

       (b) an enforcement officer;

       (c) an authorised officer;

       (d) a protector; or

       (e) a relevant support person,

in the discharge of his or her duties, or the exercise of his or her
powers, under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
51            Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                     2020 Ed.

Offence of providing false information, etc.

32.—(1) If —

    (a) a person furnishes a document or makes a statement
         (whether orally, in writing or any other way) or gives
         information to the Director‑General or an enforcement
         officer;

    (b) the document, statement or information is false or
         misleading, or the statement or information omits any
         matter or thing without which the statement or information
         (as the case may be) is misleading;

    (c) the person knows, or ought to know, that the document is
        false or misleading, or that statement or information is as
        described in paragraph (b); and

    (d) the document is furnished, or the statement is made or the
         information is given, for or in connection with a question
         or request of the Director‑General or enforcement officer
         under this Act,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the document, statement or
information is not false or misleading in a material particular, or if the
statement or information did not omit any matter or thing without
which the statement or information (as the case may be) is misleading
in a material particular.

Notice to attend court

 33.—(1) Where it appears to the Director‑General or an
enforcement officer that any person has committed an offence
under this Act, the Director‑General or enforcement officer may
serve upon the person a notice in such form as may be prescribed
requiring the person to attend the court, at the hour and on the date
specified in the notice.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               52

 (2) The Director‑General or enforcement officer must prepare a
duplicate of the notice mentioned in subsection (1) and, if so required
by a court, produce the same to the court.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (3) On an accused person appearing before a court pursuant to such
a notice, the court is to take cognizance of the offence alleged and
must proceed as though the accused person were produced before the
court under section 153 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

 (4) If a person, upon whom such a notice has been served, fails to
appear before a court in accordance with the notice, the court must
then issue a warrant for arrest of that person.

 (5) Upon a person arrested pursuant to a warrant issued under
subsection (4) being produced before a court, the court must proceed
as though the person were produced under section 153 of the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010.

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Protection from personal liability

 34.—(1) No liability shall lie personally against the
Director‑General, any authorised officer, enforcement officer,
protector, relevant support person or other person acting under the
direction of the Director‑General or a protector who, acting in good
faith and with reasonable care, does or omits to do anything —

       (a) in the execution or purported execution of this Act; or

       (b) in the discharge or purported discharge of —

               (i) any duty of the Director‑General under this Act;

              (ii) any direction of the Director‑General or a protector
                   under this Act; or

             (iii) any order made by a court under this Act.

                                                                                                           [30/2019]

 (2) No liability shall lie personally against any member of the
Review Board who, acting in good faith and with reasonable care,
does or omits to do anything in the execution or purported execution
of this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
53  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

 (3) No liability shall lie personally against any person appointed by
a court or pursuant to an order of a court, who, acting in good faith
and with reasonable care, does or omits to do anything in the
discharge or purported discharge of any order made by a court under
this Act.

 (4) No liability shall lie personally against any person who, acting
in good faith and with reasonable care, does or omits to do anything in
a place of temporary care and protection, a place of safety or the
premises of a fit person in the discharge or purported discharge of —

    (a) any direction given by the Director‑General or a protector
         under this Act; or

    (b) any order made by a court under this Act.

                                                             [30/2019]

Service of documents

 35.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by or under this
Act to be served on a person may be served as described in this
section.

 (2) A document may be served on an individual —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
            if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
            address or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult person apparently residing there, or at the
            individual’s business address with an adult person
            apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number given by the
            individual as the fax number for the service of documents
            under this Act; or

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s email address.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               54

 (3) A document may be served on a partnership (other than a
limited liability partnership) —

(a) by giving it to any partner or other like officer of the
     partnership;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the partnership’s business address;

          (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
              partnership’s business address; or

(d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s email address.

 (4) A document may be served on a body corporate (including a
limited liability partnership) or an unincorporated association —

(a) by giving it to the secretary or other like officer of the body
     corporate or unincorporated association or the limited
     liability partnership’s manager;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the body corporate’s or unincorporated association’s
     registered office or principal office in Singapore;

          (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the body
              corporate’s or unincorporated association’s registered
              office or principal office in Singapore; or

(d) by sending it by email to the body corporate’s or
     unincorporated association’s email address.

 (5) Service of a document on a person under this section takes
effect —

(a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
     successful transmission is received, on the day of the
     transmission;

(b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
     becomes capable of being retrieved by the person; and

          (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
              after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
              undelivered).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
55  Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                               2020 Ed.

 (6) A document may be served on a person under this Act by email
only with that person’s prior written consent.

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

(8) In this section —

    “business address” means —

    (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
         last known place of business in Singapore; and

    (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
         liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
         last known place of business in Singapore;

    “email address” means the last email address given by the
       addressee concerned as the email address for the service of
       documents under this Act;

    “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
       place of residence in Singapore.

Family Justice Rules

 36.—(1) The Family Justice Rules Committee constituted under
section 46(1) of the Family Justice Act 2014 may make Family
Justice Rules —

       (a) to regulate and prescribe the procedure and practice to be
            followed in respect of an application to a court under this
            Act; and

       (b) to provide for any matter relating to that procedure or
            practice.

 (2) The Family Justice Rules, may, instead of providing for any
matter, refer to any provision made or to be made about that matter by
practice directions issued for the time being by the registrar of the
Family Justice Courts.

 (3) All Family Justice Rules made under this section must be
presented to Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the
Gazette.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
2020 Ed.     Vulnerable Adults Act 2018                            56

Regulations

 37.—(1) The Minister may make regulations necessary or
convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this
Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may make
regulations for any of the following:

(a) the duties and powers of the managers of places of
     temporary care and protection and places of safety;

(b) the records to be kept by the managers of places of
     temporary care and protection and places of safety, and the
     returns and other information to be provided to the
     Director‑General with respect to those places;

          (c) the reports and information to be submitted to the
              Director‑General relating to vulnerable adults residing in
              places of temporary care and protection and places of
              safety;

(d) the constitution and procedures of the Review Board;

          (e) any matter relating to the release of any arrested person on
              any bail or bond under section 28(5) or (6).

                                                                                                          [30/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
                 LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
           VULNERABLE ADULTS ACT 2018

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 27 of 2018 — Vulnerable Adults Act 2018

Bill            : 20/2018

First Reading   : 20 March 2018

Second and Third Readings : 18 May 2018

Commencement    : 19 December 2018

2. Act 30 of 2019 — Children and Young Persons (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 74 of the above Act)

Bill            : 22/2019

First Reading   : 5 August 2019

Second Reading  : 3 September 2019

Third Reading   : 4 September 2019

Commencement    : 1 July 2020 (section 74)

3. 2020 Revised Edition — Vulnerable Adults Act 2018

Operation       : 31 December 2021

4. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill            : 24/2022

First Reading   : 12 September 2022

Second and Third Readings : 3 October 2022

Commencement    : 1 November 2022

5. Act 21 of 2023 — Women’s Charter (Family Violence and Other Matters)
                         (Amendment) Act 2023

Bill            : 18/2023

First Reading   : 9 May 2023

Second and Third Readings : 4 July 2023

Commencement    : 2 January 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
.                                 ii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
       COMPARATIVE TABLE
VULNERABLE ADULTS ACT 2018

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                  2020 Ed.              Act 27 of 2018
—
[Omitted as having had effect]  PART 7
[Omitted as having had effect]  38
[Omitted as having had effect]  39
[Omitted as having had effect]  40
[Omitted as having had effect]  41
                                42

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/1/2025
