Western Australia
Trans-continental Railway Act 1911

Western Australia
Trans-continental Railway Act 1911
Contents
1.	Short title	1
2.	Consent to construction	1
3.	Power to grant land	1
	Notes
	Compilation table	3


Western Australia
Transcontinental Railway Act 1911
An Act to consent to the construction by the Commonwealth of Australia of the Western Australian portion of a railway from Kalgoorlie to Port Augusta; and to enable the Governor to grant to the Commonwealth such waste lands of the Crown in Western Australia as are required for the construction, maintenance, and working of such railway.
1.	Short title
		This Act may be cited as the Transcontinental Railway Act 1911 1.
2.	Consent to construction
		The State of Western Australia hereby consents to the Parliament of the Commonwealth making laws with respect to the construction of a railway from Kalgoorlie to Port Augusta; and the consent of the State of Western Australia is hereby given to the construction by the Commonwealth in Western Australian Territory of any portion of such railway which shall be required or authorised to be constructed therein by or pursuant to any Act of the Parliament of the Commonwealth.
3.	Power to grant land
		The Governor may grant to the Commonwealth, for an estate in fee simple, the surface and the land below the surface to a depth of 150 feet of all such waste lands of the Crown in Western Australia as, in the opinion of the Minister of State for the Commonwealth for the time being administering any Act of the Parliament of the Commonwealth authorising any such railway as aforesaid, are necessary for the construction, maintenance, and working of the railway intended to be constructed under the powers conferred by such Act.
		Provided that no mining operations shall be carried on under the land so granted without the approval of the Executive Government of the Commonwealth.


Notes
1	This is a reprint as at 3 August 2007 of the Trans-continental Railway Act 1911.  The following table contains information about that Act and any reprint.
Compilation table
Short title
Number and year
Assent
Commencement
Transcontinental Railway Act 1911
6 of 1912
(2 Geo. V No. 14)
9 Jan 1912
9 Jan 1912
Reprint 1: The Transcontinental Railway Act 1911 as at 3 Aug 2007


