THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                       PENSIONS ACT 1956

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
                                                                       2020 Ed.

         Pensions Act 1956

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
     1.
     2.  Short title
     3.  Interpretation
     4.  Application of this Act
     5.  Pension Authorities
     6.  Delegation of powers to Pension Authorities
     7.  President may make pensions regulations
     8.  Pensions, etc., to be charged on Pension Fund
     9.  Pensions, etc., not of right
   10.   Service not counting for pension, etc.
   11.   Payment into Pension Fund
   12.   Cases in which pensions, etc., may be granted
   13.   Retirement in public interest
   14.   Compulsory retirement
   15.   Maximum pension from all public service
   16.   Pensions, etc., not to be assignable
         Liability of pensioners to be called upon to take further
   17.   employment
   18.   Pensions, etc., to cease on bankruptcy
   19.   Pensions, etc., to cease on conviction
         Pensions, etc., may cease on accepting employment in certain
   20.   companies, or in engaging in certain occupations for gain
   21.   Gratuity where officer dies in service
         Repeal and saving
         First Schedule — Pensions regulations
         Second Schedule — Funds
         Third Schedule — Ordinances Repealed

An Act to regulate the granting of pensions, gratuities and other
  allowances to officers in the public service of Singapore.

                                                                  [1 July 1956]

                                                   1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.     Pensions Act 1956                                      2

Short title

1. This Act is the Pensions Act 1956.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “officer” includes a judge and a police officer of any rank;

      “officer on the pensionable establishment” means an officer who
         has been confirmed in his or her appointment as the holder of
         a pensionable office;

      “other public service” means public service not under the
         Government of Singapore;

      “Pension Authority”, in relation to any officer or retired officer,
         means a Pension Authority appointed under section 4 for that
         officer or the class to which that officer belongs;

      “Pension Fund” means the Pension Fund established by the
         Pension Fund Act 1995;

      “pensionable emoluments” means —

              (a) in respect of public service in Singapore —

                     (i) the basic salary attached to a pensionable office
                          or, in the case of an officer serving in a
                          pensionable class, the basic salary payable to
                          that officer as an officer of that class;

                     (ii) any personal pensionable allowance; and

                    (iii) such other allowances as may be prescribed by
                          regulations to be pensionable allowances; and

              (b) in respect of other public service, emoluments which
                   count for pension under any law or regulation in force
                   relating to such service;

      “pensionable office” means —

              (a) in respect of public service in Singapore, an office or
                   class of office declared by the President, by
                   notification in the Gazette, to be pensionable and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
3  Pensions Act 1956                                         2020 Ed.

   not likewise declared, by subsequent notification in
   the Gazette, to be non-pensionable; but where by
   virtue of any such declaration any office ceases to be
   a pensionable office, then so long as any person
   holding that office at the time of the declaration
   continues therein, the office, as respects that person,
   continues to be a pensionable office; and

   (b) in respect of other public service, an office which is a
        pensionable office under any law or regulation in
        force relating to such service;

   “public service” means service in a civil capacity under the
      Government of Singapore or in such other service as the
      President may determine to be public service for the purpose
      of any provision of this Act;

   “repealed Ordinance” means any Ordinance repealed by
      section 21;

   “Singapore” means —

           (a) in relation to any period ending before 3 June 1959 —
                the Colony of Singapore; and

   (b) in relation to any period beginning on or after 3 June
        1959 and ending before 9 August 1965 — the State of
        Singapore.

Application of this Act

 3.—(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (4), the provisions of this Act
shall apply —

       (a) to all officers appointed to the public service in Singapore;
            and

       (b) to all officers who have been transferred from Singapore to
            any other public service before 1 July 1956.

 (2) Nothing in this Act diminishes the amount of pension, gratuity
(other than a gratuity under section 20) or other allowance for which
an officer in the public service in Singapore on 1 July 1956 would
have been eligible had this Act not been enacted or adversely affect

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.  Pensions Act 1956                                         4

the conditions which would have been applicable to such pension,
gratuity or other allowance.

 (3) In the application of this Act to officers who were officers on the
Malayan Establishment within the meaning of section 2 of the
Malayan Establishment Pensions Ordinance 1948 (M 12/48)
immediately before 1 July 1954, the following provisions have effect:

(a) where any such officer was in the public service in
     Singapore immediately before 1 July 1954, all rights
     accrued to such officer in respect of pensions, gratuities or
     other allowances under the Malayan Establishment
     Pensions Ordinance 1948 or the Minutes made
     thereunder continue to subsist under this Act as if
     service in respect of which those rights accrued had been
     public service in Singapore; and

(b) nothing in this Act —

          (i) diminishes the amount of pension, gratuity or other
              allowance for which any such officer as is referred to
              in paragraph (a) would have been eligible under the
              Malayan Establishment Pensions Ordinance 1948 or
              the Minutes made thereunder had the Ordinance not
              been repealed and had the officer continued to serve
              on the Malayan Establishment; or

          (ii) adversely affects conditions that would have been
               applicable to such pension, gratuity or other
               allowances under that Ordinance or Minutes.

 (4) Unless otherwise expressly provided, the provisions of this Act
shall not apply —

(a) to all officers appointed on or after 1 April 1986 to the
     public service in Singapore, except officers who are
     appointed to such schemes of service as may be
     designated by the President; and

(b) to all officers appointed on or after 1 December 1972 to
     any office in the public service in Singapore being an office
     designated as falling within Division 3 or 4, except officers

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
5  Pensions Act 1956                                         2020 Ed.

   who are so appointed to the Police (Junior) and the
   Narcotics schemes of service.

Pension Authorities

 4.—(1) The President may, for the purposes of this Act, appoint by
order in the Gazette one or more Pension Authorities comprising any
public officer or group of public officers.

 (2) Any order under subsection (1) shall specify the class or classes
of public officers in respect of which a Pension Authority may
exercise its powers or perform its functions under this Act.

 (3) A Pension Authority may depute any public officer to exercise
or perform on its behalf any power or function conferred on the
Pension Authority by this Act subject to such conditions as may be
specified by the Pension Authority.

 (4) A Pension Authority may exercise any power or perform any
function conferred on it by this Act notwithstanding the delegation by
it of that power or function under subsection (3).

Delegation of powers to Pension Authorities

 5.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the President may depute any
Pension Authority to exercise or perform on the President’s behalf
any power or function conferred on the President by this Act subject
to such conditions as may be specified by the President.

 (2) Nothing in subsection (1) authorises the President to depute any
Pension Authority to exercise on the President’s behalf any of the
following powers:

       (a) to make regulations under this Act;

       (b) to declare any office or class of office to be pensionable or
            non-pensionable (as the case may be) under section 2;

       (c) to determine any service to be public service for the
            purpose of any provision of this Act;

       (d) to vary the commutation factor or discount rate under
            section 20;

       (e) to designate schemes of service under section 3(4)(a).

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.  Pensions Act 1956                                         6

 (3) Where by virtue of subsection (1) any power or function of the
President under this Act may be exercised or performed on the
President’s behalf by a Pension Authority, then, unless the President
otherwise directs, the Pension Authority may arrange for the exercise
or performance of that power or function by any other public officer.

 (4) Any arrangement made by a Pension Authority under
subsection (3) for the exercise or performance of any power or
function by a public officer does not prevent the Pension Authority by
whom the arrangement was made from exercising or performing that
power or function.

 (5) The President may also exercise any power or perform any
function conferred on the President by this Act despite the delegation
by the President of that power or function under subsection (1).

President may make pensions regulations

 6.—(1) The President may make regulations for the granting of
pensions, gratuities and other allowances to persons who have been in
the public service in Singapore or to their legal personal
representatives or dependants.

 (2) The regulations contained in the First Schedule are in force until
varied or revoked by any regulation made under subsection (1).

 (3) The President may, in making regulations under this section,
provide for any officer or class of officers holding pensionable offices
to opt for the provident fund scheme applicable to non-pensionable
employees of the Government under the Central Provident Fund
Act 1953 and for the terms and conditions of such option.

 (4) Any pension or gratuity granted under this Act must be
computed in accordance with the provisions in force at the actual
date of an officer’s retirement.

 (5) Where the President is satisfied that it is equitable that any
regulation made under this Act should have retrospective effect in
order to confer a benefit upon, or remove a disability attaching to, any
person, that regulation may be given retrospective effect to any date,
whether before or after 1 July 1956, for that purpose.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
7  Pensions Act 1956                                         2020 Ed.

 (6) All regulations made under this section and any regulation
varying or revoking the same have the same force and effect for all
purposes as if they were contained in this Act.

   (7) Regulations made under this section may provide that —

   (a) where a person has rendered full-time national service
        under section 12 of the Enlistment Act 1970, or under the
        provisions of any written law repealed by that Act (whether
        the service was rendered before or after the person became
        the holder of a pensionable office), the period of the
        person’s entire full-time national service may be treated, to
        such extent and on any conditions that may be specified in
        the regulations, as pensionable service;

   (b) the service referred to in paragraph (a) be deemed to be
        public service; and

   (c) the person referred to in paragraph (a) be deemed to have
       been or to have continued to be (as the case may be) an
       officer in the public service for the period of that full-time
       national service for the purposes of this Act.

Pensions, etc., to be charged on Pension Fund

 7. There shall be charged on and paid out of the Pension Fund all
such sums of money as may from time to time be granted by way of
pension, gratuity or other allowance in accordance with this Act.

Pensions, etc., not of right

 8.—(1) No officer shall have an absolute right to compensation for
past services or to any pension, gratuity or other allowance under this
Act, nor shall anything in this Act limit the right of the Government to
dismiss any officer without compensation.

 (2) Subject to Article 113 of the Constitution, where it is established
to the satisfaction of a Pension Authority that an officer over which it
has jurisdiction has been guilty of negligence, irregularity or
misconduct, it is lawful for the Pension Authority to withhold the
pension, gratuity or other allowance for which the officer would have
become eligible but for this section.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.  Pensions Act 1956                                         8

Service not counting for pension, etc.

 9. A pension, gratuity or other allowance must not be granted under
this Act to any officer —

(a) in respect of any service while on probation or agreement,
     unless without break of service he or she is confirmed in a
     pensionable office in Singapore or in an office in other
     public service which is at the time of confirmation
     pensionable in accordance with any law or regulation in
     force in such service, except that any interruption in
     service caused by temporary suspension of employment
     not arising from misconduct or voluntary resignation must
     be disregarded for the purposes of this paragraph;

(b) in respect of any service as a pupil, apprentice or volunteer,
     during which he or she is undergoing whole time training
     and for which he or she is not remunerated or receives only
     a subsistence allowance or a special apprentice pay and the
     President may, by notification in the Gazette, declare what
     service is to be service as a pupil, apprentice or volunteer
     for the purposes of this paragraph;

          (c) in respect of any service, while below the age of 18 years,
              except that this paragraph does not apply to any officer or
              other person in the public service in Singapore on 1 July
              1956 to whom, under any repealed Ordinance, a pension,
              gratuity or other allowance may be granted in respect of
              service while below the age of 18 years; or

(d) in respect of any service, including service deemed under
     any written law for the time being in force to be service
     with the Government for the purposes of this Act, during
     which the officer was —

          (i) a member of any fund mentioned in the
              Second Schedule, except upon the condition that
              there must be first paid to the Government the total
              amount paid by the Government to that fund
              excluding the amount paid on account of the
              officer if he or she is on the pensionable
              establishment with respect to the service or an

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
9  Pensions Act 1956                                         2020 Ed.

   equivalent amount if he or she is not on the
   pensionable establishment with respect to such
   service, together with the interest, if any, thereon; or

   (ii) eligible for any benefits on retirement under the
        Singapore City Council Superannuation Fund for
        Subordinate Employees Rules 1954 except upon the
        condition that he or she has to first relinquish all
        rights to the benefits under those Rules.

Payment into Pension Fund

 10. Any amount that is required under section 9(d)(i) to be first paid
to the Government before any pension, gratuity or other allowance
may be granted under this Act must be paid into the Pension Fund.

Cases in which pensions, etc., may be granted

 11.—(1) A pension, gratuity or other allowance must not be granted
under this Act to any officer until the officer has retired from the
public service.

 (2) A pension, gratuity or other allowance must not be granted
under this Act to any officer who has retired from the public service in
Singapore, unless the officer has retired —

       (a) in the case of male officers in the public service in
            Singapore on 1 July 1956, with the consent of the
            President, on or after attaining the age of 50 years, and
            in other cases, on or after attaining the age of 55 years if a
            man, or of 45 years if a woman, except that in the case of a
            female officer she was in the service before 1 March 1962
            and has opted to retire on or after attaining the age of
            45 years;

       (b) on or after attaining the age of 45 years if the officer is a
            police officer, including a police officer of such Auxiliary
            Police Force as may be specified by the President by
            notification in the Gazette, below the rank of assistant
            superintendent or a prison officer below the rank of
            superintendent;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.  Pensions Act 1956                                         10

          (c) on a certificate from the head of the officer’s department
              and on medical evidence to the satisfaction of the President
              that the officer is incapable, by reason of some infirmity of
              mind or body, of discharging the duties of his or her office
              and that such infirmity is likely to be permanent;

(d) on the abolition of his or her office;

          (e) in the case of termination of employment in the public
              interest as provided in section 12;

          (f) on compulsory retirement for the purpose of facilitating
              improvement in the organisation of the department to
              which the officer belongs by which greater efficiency or
              economy may be effected;

(g) with the consent of the President, on or after completing
     15 years of service as a Gurkha serving in the Gurkha
     Contingent of the Singapore Police Force;

(h) in the case of a female officer appointed to the public
     service on or after 1 July 1956 or re-appointed after
     resignation on account of marriage, with the consent of the
     President, on or after attaining the age of 50 years; or

          (i) with the consent of the President, on or after completing
              15 years of service, in special circumstances not falling
              within any of the preceding paragraphs.

                                                                                                           [4/2010]

 (3) Notwithstanding subsection (2), a pension, gratuity or other
allowance may be granted under this Act to —

(a) any officer on his or her attaining the minimum age of
     retirement applicable to the officer specified in
     subsection (2)(a), (b) or (h) who, having retired from the
     public service of Singapore under the provisions of the
     Instruction Manual for the time being in force in order to be
     nominated as a candidate for election as a member of
     Parliament or of any local government authority in
     Singapore, has not subsequently been re-employed in the
     public service of Singapore, except that —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
11  Pensions Act 1956                                         2020 Ed.

    (i) where the President is satisfied that such an officer is
        physically or mentally incapacitated so as to be
        unable to continue in any employment before the
        officer has attained the minimum age of retirement
        applicable to the officer, he or she may be granted a
        pension, gratuity or other allowance with effect from
        the date the officer satisfies the President that he or
        she is so physically or mentally incapacitated; or

    (ii) where such an officer dies before the officer has
         attained the minimum age of retirement applicable to
         the officer, his or her dependants or legal personal
         representatives may be paid a gratuity in accordance
         with section 20(3); or

    (b) any officer who, not being an officer to whom
         paragraph (a) applies, having either completed 15 years
         of public service or attained the age of 40 years and
         completed 10 years of public service, has retired with the
         permission of the Chief Secretary, granted before
         1 September 1958 in order to be nominated as a
         candidate for election as a member of the Legislative
         Assembly or of any local government authority in
         Singapore.

 (4) The President may direct that any pension, gratuity or other
allowance granted to an officer retired under subsection (2)(e) or (i)
be suspended until and take effect from such date, not being later than
the date the officer attains the minimum age, as the President may
determine.

 (5) Notwithstanding subsection (4) —

    (a) where the President is satisfied that an officer referred to in
         that subsection is physically or mentally incapacitated so
         as to be unable to continue in any employment before the
         officer has attained the minimum age, the officer may be
         granted a pension, gratuity or other allowance with effect
         from the date the officer satisfies the President that he or
         she is so physically or mentally incapacitated;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.  Pensions Act 1956                                         12

(b) where the officer dies before he or she has attained the
     minimum age, the officer’s dependants or legal personal
     representatives may be paid a gratuity in accordance with
     section 20(3); and

          (c) no right shall accrue in respect of any pension, gratuity or
              other allowance during the period such pension, gratuity or
              other allowance has been suspended.

(6) In subsections (4) and (5), “minimum age” means —

(a) in the case of an officer who is entitled to retire at the age of
     45 years — 45 years;

(b) in the case of an officer appointed to the public service
     before 12 September 1986 other than an officer referred to
     in paragraph (a) — 50 years; and

          (c) in the case of an officer appointed to the public service on
              or after 12 September 1986 other than an officer referred to
              in paragraph (a) —

          (i) 50 years if he or she is entitled to retire at the age of
              50 or 55 years; and

          (ii) 55 years if he or she is entitled to retire at the age of
               60 years.

 (7) The pension granted to an officer under subsection (4) must be
computed on the basis of the officer’s pensionable service up to the
date of retirement as though the officer had retired on medical
grounds under subsection (2)(c) except that an officer retired in the
public interest under subsection (2)(e) may have his or her pension
reduced under section 8(2).

Retirement in public interest

 12.—(1) Where an officer’s service is terminated on the ground
that, having regard to the conditions of the public service, the
usefulness of the officer thereto and all the other circumstances of the
case, such termination is desirable in the public interest, and a
pension, gratuity or other allowance cannot otherwise be granted to
the officer under the provisions of this Act, the relevant Pension
Authority may, if the Pension Authority thinks fit, grant such pension,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
13  Pensions Act 1956                                         2020 Ed.

gratuity or other allowance as the Pension Authority thinks just and
proper, not exceeding in amount that for which the officer would be
eligible if the officer retired from the public service in the
circumstances described in section 11(2)(c).

 (2) Where in the exercise of its powers of disciplinary control over
public officers the Public Service Commission, the Judicial Service
Commission or the Legal Service Commission (as the case may be)
has ordered an officer to be retired in the public interest, the officer’s
service shall be deemed to have been terminated under subsection (1).

                                                                               [Act 33 of 2021 wef 14/01/2022]

Compulsory retirement

 13. The President may require any officer to retire from the public
service in Singapore —

       (a) who has attained, in the case of a male officer in the public
            service in Singapore on 1 July 1956, the age of 55 years,
            and in the case of any other male officer the age of 60 years
            or 55 years if the President in any individual case so
            directs;

       (b) who, being a police officer below the rank of assistant
            superintendent or a prison officer below the rank of
            superintendent, has attained the age of 45 years;

       (c) whose retirement appears to the President to be desirable in
            the public interest;

       (d) who, being a woman appointed to the public service before
            1 March 1962, is married or marries and has opted to
            remain eligible for a gratuity on marriage;

       (e) on the abolition of the office of the officer;

        (f) for the purpose of facilitating improvement in the
            organisation of the department to which the officer
            belongs by which greater efficiency or economy may be
            effected; or

       (g) who has attained, in the case of a female officer appointed
            to the public service on or after 1 March 1962, the age of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.  Pensions Act 1956                                         14

          60 years or 55 years if the President in any individual case
          so directs.

                                                                                                     [4/2010]

Maximum pension from all public service

 14.—(1) A pension granted to an officer under this Act must not
exceed two-thirds of the highest pensionable emoluments drawn by
the officer at any time in the course of his or her public service in
Singapore.

 (2) Where an officer has been or is granted a pension or pensions in
respect of other public service, the officer may be granted the full
pension for which the officer is eligible in respect of his or her public
service in Singapore.

 (3) No person may at any time draw from the Pension Fund an
amount of pension which, when added to the amount of any pension
or pensions drawn in respect of other public service, exceeds
two-thirds of the highest pensionable emoluments drawn by that
person at any time in the course of his or her public service in
Singapore or in other public service.

 (4) Where a person referred to in subsection (3) receives, in respect
of some period of public service, both a gratuity and a pension, the
amount of the pension is deemed, for the purpose of subsections (2)
and (3), to be the amount of pension which would have been payable
had the officer received a pension only and not a gratuity and a
pension.

 (5) In a case falling under subsection (3), the amount of pension to
be drawn from the Pension Fund is subject to the approval of the
relevant Pension Authority, in order that it may be determined with
due regard to the amount of any pension or pensions similarly to be
drawn in respect of other public service.

 (6) For the purpose of this section, an allowance granted in respect
of injury or disease must not be taken into account; but where the
officer is granted such an allowance, the amount of the allowance
which the officer may draw must not exceed one-sixth of his or her
highest pensionable emoluments at any time in the course of his or
her public service by more than the sum by which the amount of his or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
15  Pensions Act 1956                                         2020 Ed.

her pension or pensions, apart from such allowance, falls short of
two-thirds of such highest pensionable emoluments.

Pensions, etc., not to be assignable

 15. A pension, gratuity or other allowance granted under this Act is
not assignable or transferable, except for the purpose of satisfying —

       (a) a debt due to the Government; or

       (b) an order of any court for the payment of periodical sums of
            money towards the maintenance of the wife or former wife
            or minor child, whether legitimate or not, of the officer to
            whom the pension, gratuity or other allowance has been
            granted,

and is not liable to be attached, sequestered or levied upon for or in
respect of any debt or claim except a debt due to the Government.

Liability of pensioners to be called upon to take further
employment

 16.—(1) Every pension granted under this Act is subject to the
condition that unless and until the officer has reached the age of
50 years if a man, and of 45 years if a woman, he or she may, if
physically fit for service, be called upon by the President to accept an
office, in Singapore, not less in value than the office which he or she
held at the date of retirement.

 (2) If a pensioner so called upon declines to accept such office, the
payment of his or her pension may be suspended until he or she has
attained the age of 50 years if a man, and of 45 years if a woman.

 (3) This section does not apply to officers in the public service in
Singapore on 1 July 1956 who retire otherwise than in the
circumstances described in section 11(2)(d) or (f).

Pensions, etc., to cease on bankruptcy

 17.—(1) A pension, gratuity or other allowance which would be
granted under this Act to an officer must not be so granted if, at the
date of his or her retirement from the public service, the officer has
been adjudged a bankrupt or declared insolvent by judgment of a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.  Pensions Act 1956                                         16

court of competent jurisdiction, whether in Singapore or elsewhere,
and has not obtained his or her discharge from such adjudication or
declaration.

 (2) If any person to whom a pension or other allowance has been
granted under this Act is adjudicated a bankrupt or is declared
insolvent by judgment of the court, whether in Singapore or
elsewhere, then the pension or allowance immediately ceases.

(3) In any case where —

(a) by reason of bankruptcy or insolvency of an officer, a
     pension, gratuity or allowance is not granted; or

(b) by reason of bankruptcy or insolvency of a pensioner, a
     pension or allowance ceases,

the relevant Pension Authority may, from time to time, during the
remainder of such person’s life, or during such shorter period or
periods, either continuous or discontinuous, as the Pension Authority
thinks fit, cause all or any part of the moneys to which the person
would have been entitled by way of pension, gratuity or allowance,
had the person not become a bankrupt or insolvent, to be paid to, or
applied for the maintenance and personal support or benefit of, all or
any (to the exclusion of the other or others) of the following persons
in such proportions and manner as the Pension Authority thinks
proper, and such moneys must be paid or applied accordingly:

          (c) such person himself or herself;

(d) any wife, child or children of the person.

 (4) Moneys applied under subsection (3) for the discharge of the
debts of the officer or pensioner referred to in that subsection must,
for the purposes of that subsection, be regarded as applied for his or
her benefit.

 (5) When a person to whom a pension or allowance has not been
granted or whose pension or allowance has ceased under this section
obtains a full and proper discharge from his or her bankruptcy or
insolvency, his or her pension or allowance shall be restored to him or
her with effect from the date of that discharge.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
17  Pensions Act 1956                                         2020 Ed.

Pensions, etc., to cease on conviction

 18.—(1) If any person to whom a pension or other allowance has
been granted under this Act is sentenced to death or penal servitude or
any term of imprisonment by any court of competent jurisdiction,
whether in Singapore or elsewhere, for any crime or offence, the
relevant Pension Authority may direct that the pension or allowance
immediately cease, and thereupon the pension or allowance ceases
accordingly.

 (2) Any pension or allowance that ceases under subsection (1) must
be restored with retrospective effect in the case of a person who after
conviction at any time receives a free pardon.

 (3) Where a pension or allowance ceases by virtue of a direction
under subsection (1), the relevant Pension Authority may cause all or
any part of moneys to which the pensioner would have been entitled
by way of pension or allowance to be paid to or applied for the benefit
of any wife, child or children of the pensioner and, after the expiration
of the pensioner’s sentence, also for the benefit of the pensioner, in
the same manner precisely and subject to the same qualifications and
restrictions as in the case of bankruptcy or insolvency provided under
section 17.

Pensions, etc., may cease on accepting employment in certain
companies, or in engaging in certain occupations for gain

 19.—(1) If any person to whom a pension or other allowance has
been granted under this Act —

       (a) becomes a director of any company, the principal part of
            whose business is in any way directly concerned with
            Singapore or Malaysia;

       (b) becomes an officer or employee employed in Singapore or
            in Malaysia by any such company; or

       (c) engages in any occupation for gain in Singapore or in
            Malaysia,

without the permission of the President in writing first had and
obtained, the President may direct that the pension or allowance

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.  Pensions Act 1956                                         18

granted to the person immediately cease, and thereupon the pension
or allowance ceases accordingly.

 (2) The President may, on being satisfied that the person in respect
of whose pension or allowance any direction under subsection (1)
shall have been given has ceased —

(a) to be a director of a company referred to in that subsection;

(b) to be employed as an officer or employee of such company
     in Singapore or in Malaysia; or

          (c) to be engaged in an occupation referred to in that
              subsection,

to give directions for the restoration of the pension or allowance, with
retrospective effect if he or she sees fit, to such date as he or she shall
specify, and the pension or allowance shall be restored accordingly.

 (3) This section shall cease to apply to any person to whom a
pension or other allowance has been granted under this Act after a
period of 5 years from the date of his or her retirement.

Gratuity where officer dies in service

 20.—(1) Where an officer dies in the public service in Singapore,
there shall be paid to such of the officer’s dependants as the relevant
Pension Authority may think fit, or if there are no dependants, to the
officer’s legal personal representative, a gratuity —

       (a) in the case of an officer holding a pensionable office who
            has not exercised an option mentioned in section 6(3), of an
            amount equal to one of the following capital sums:

               (i) where the officer has attained the minimum age at the
                   time of the officer’s death — an amount ascertained
                   by multiplying the relevant commutation factor by
                   the amount of such pension that may have been
                   granted to the officer under this Act if the officer had
                   retired on the date of the officer’s death in the
                   circumstances described in section 11(2)(c);

              (ii) where the officer has not attained the minimum age
                   at the time of the officer’s death — the amount

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
19           Pensions Act 1956                                2020 Ed.

             ascertained in accordance with sub-paragraph (i),
             from which amount there must be a discount at the
             relevant discount rate in respect of each year or part
             thereof falling between the date of the officer’s death
             and the date he or she would have attained his or her
             minimum age had the officer not died (both dates
             inclusive),

    but that gratuity must in no case be less than one year’s
    pensionable emoluments;

    (b) in the case of a Gurkha serving in the Gurkha Contingent of
         the Singapore Police Force, of an amount equal to 1/120 of
         one year’s pensionable emoluments for each complete

         month of service but such gratuity must not be less than

         one year’s or more than 3 years’ pensionable emoluments;

    (c) in the case of an officer holding a pensionable office who
         has exercised an option mentioned in section 6(3), of an
         amount equal to one year’s salary as at the date
         immediately prior to the officer’s option taking effect or
         the commuted pension gratuity which might have been
         granted to the officer if the officer had retired at the date of
         the officer’s death in the circumstances described in
         section 11(2)(c), whichever is the greater; or

    (d) in any other case, of an amount equal to one year’s salary
         or the officer’s commuted annual allowance gratuity,
         whichever is the greater.

(2) Where —

    (a) an officer who has retired from the public service in
         Singapore dies within one year of his or her retirement; or

    (b) a retired officer, being an officer who opted under any
         regulations made under this Act to receive a full pension
         without any gratuity and whose pension had been
         suspended under section 11(4), dies within one year of
         his or her pension taking effect,

there shall be paid to such of his or her dependants as the relevant
Pension Authority may think fit, or if there are no dependants, to his

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.               Pensions Act 1956                            20

or her legal personal representative, a gratuity of an amount equal
to —

          (c) in the case of an officer holding a pensionable office who
              has not exercised an option mentioned in section 6(3) —
              one year’s pensionable emoluments; and

(d) in any other case — one year’s salary,

from which gratuity there must be deducted the amount of the gratuity
(if any) which has been paid or is payable under this Act and any
payment or payments of pension or allowance, other than any
allowance granted in respect of an injury, which may already have
been made.

 (3) Despite subsection (2), where an officer whose pension, gratuity
or other allowance is suspended under section 11(4) dies before his or
her pension, gratuity or allowance takes effect (whether or not within
one year of his or her retirement), there shall be paid to such of his or
her dependants as the relevant Pension Authority may think fit, or if
there are no dependants, to his or her legal personal representative, a
gratuity of an amount ascertained by multiplying the relevant
commutation factor by the amount of the pension that may have
been granted to the officer under this Act, from which amount there
must be a discount at the relevant discount rate in respect of each year
or part thereof falling between the date he or she would have attained
his or her minimum age had he or she not died and the date of his or
her death (both dates inclusive) but that gratuity must in no case be
less than one year’s pensionable emoluments.

(4) In this section —

“commutation factor” means 175.14 or such other factor as the
   President, by order in the Gazette, prescribes in variation
   thereof;

“commuted annual allowance gratuity” means the gratuity
   which might have been granted to the officer under any
   regulation providing for the grant of a reduced annual
   allowance and a gratuity, if the officer’s public service had
   been wholly in Singapore and if he or she had retired at the
   date of his or her death in the circumstances described in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
21  Pensions Act 1956                                         2020 Ed.

    section 11(2)(c); and for the purpose of calculating the same
    the officer is deemed to have elected to be paid an annual
    allowance at the rate of three-fourths of the annual allowance
    granted to the officer;

    “discount rate” means 5% or such other rate as the President, by
       order in the Gazette, prescribes in variation thereof;

    “minimum age” has the meaning given by section 11(6);

    “one year’s salary” means the emoluments which would be
       taken for the purpose of computing any allowance or gratuity,
       or in the case of an officer holding a pensionable office who
       has exercised an option mentioned in section 6(3) any
       pension, which may be granted to the officer if he or she had
       retired at the date of his or her death in the circumstances
       described in section 11(2)(c);

    “pensionable emoluments”, in relation to an officer who had
       exercised an option mentioned in section 6(3), means the
       officer’s pensionable emoluments at the date immediately
       prior to his or her option taking effect;

    “relevant commutation factor” and “relevant discount rate”, in
       relation to an officer or a retired officer, mean the
       commutation factor and discount rate, respectively, in force
       on either the date of the officer’s death or his or her
       appointment to the public service in Singapore, whichever is
       the more favourable; and for this purpose, all officers
       appointed to the public service in Singapore before
       1 January 1995 shall be deemed to be appointed to the
       public service in Singapore on that date.

 (5) This section applies to all officers appointed to the public
service in Singapore, whether appointed before or after 1 April 1986,
but not a Supreme Court Judge, an Attorney-General, an
Auditor-General, a Deputy Attorney-General or a member of the
Public Service Commission who is eligible to be granted a death
gratuity under any other written law.

                                                                                                [38/2014; 40/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.           Pensions Act 1956                                22

Repeal and saving

21.—(1) The Ordinances set out in the Third Schedule are repealed.
(2) Despite subsection (1) —

(a) all notifications declaring offices to be pensionable offices
     or classes to be pensionable classes made under any
     repealed Ordinance are deemed to have been made under
     this Act and continue in force until cancelled or varied by
     notifications in the Gazette made under this Act;

(b) all pensions, gratuities or other allowances granted under
     any repealed Ordinance are deemed to have been granted
     under this Act, and continue to be payable until determined
     under and in accordance with this Act; and

          (c) all rights accrued in respect of pensions, gratuities or other
              allowances under any repealed Ordinance continue to
              subsist under this Act as if service in respect of which such
              rights accrued had been service under the Government.

                     FIRST SCHEDULE                                 Section 6(2)

                   PENSIONS REGULATIONS

                       ARRANGEMENT OF REGULATIONS
                                           PART 1

                                      PRELIMINARY
Regulation

  1. Citation
  2. Regulations subject to Act

                                           PART 2
     RECKONABLE SERVICE AND PENSIONABLE EMOLUMENTS
  3. Period of service qualifying for pension, etc.
  4. Pensions to whom and at what rates to be granted
  5. Pensionable service
  6. Service to be unbroken

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
23  Pensions Act 1956                                         2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

 7. Acting service
 8. Non-pensionable service when to count
 9. War service how reckoned
10. Full-time national service is deemed to be public service and period of such

     service may be reckoned as pensionable service
11. Officers seconded to public body
12. Emoluments on which pensions to be computed
13. Pensions granted for whole-time and part-time service

                                          PART 3
                   PENSION, GRATUITY AND ALLOWANCE
14. Gratuity and reduced pension for Gurkha
15. Pension options
16. Reduced pension plus gratuity and commuted pension gratuity
17. Case of pensioner re-employed
18. Abolition or reorganisation of office
19. Application of regulations 20 to 23 to all officers
20. Allowance for injured officers
21. Pensions, etc., to dependants when officer is killed on duty
22. Allowance for injured police officers and pensions, etc., when police
     officer is killed on duty
23. Additional compensation for injured police officer or when police officer is
     killed on duty
24. Allowance for service in non-pensionable office

                                          PART 4
                                  MISCELLANEOUS
25. Transfer from pensionable to non-pensionable office
26. Gratuity where service insufficient for pension
27. Gratuity when nothing else is provided
28. Conditions of pension
29. Temporary reduction of salary not to affect rate of pension

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.  Pensions Act 1956                                         24

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Table A — Scale of pensions
Table B — Gratuities and allowances

          ____________________

                                           PART 1
                                      PRELIMINARY
Citation
 1. These Regulations are the Pensions Regulations.

Regulations subject to Act
 2. These Regulations shall in all respects be subject to the provisions of the Act.

                                           PART 2

      RECKONABLE SERVICE AND PENSIONABLE EMOLUMENTS

Period of service qualifying for pension, etc.

 3. Subject to these Regulations, service qualifying for pension, gratuity or other
allowance, as the case may be, shall be the inclusive period between the date from
which an officer commences to draw salary or half salary from the funds of the
Government and the date of the officer leaving the service of the Government
without deduction of any period during which he or she has been absent on leave.

Pensions to whom and at what rates to be granted

 4.—(1) Every officer holding a pensionable office in Singapore, who has been in
the service of the Government for not less than 10 years, may on his or her
retirement be granted a pension at the rate of one six-hundredth (1/600th) of his or
her annual pensionable emoluments in respect of each complete month of
pensionable service subject to the limit prescribed in section 14 of the Act.

 (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), an officer in the public service in Singapore
on 1 July 1956 may be permitted to draw pension at the rate of
one seven-hundred-and-twentieth (1/720th) of his or her pensionable
emoluments in respect of each complete month of pensionable service with an
addition of sixty seven-hundred-and-twentieths (60/720ths) of his or her
pensionable emoluments subject to the limit prescribed in section 14 of the Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
25                   Pensions Act 1956                        2020 Ed.

                     FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Pensionable service

 5. For the purpose of computing the amount of a pension or gratuity to be
granted to an officer, the following periods, subject to any deduction to be made
under regulation 8, must be taken into account as pensionable service:

    (a) the periods during which he or she has been on duty;

    (b) any period during which he or she was proceeding to Singapore, on
         first appointment and in respect of which he or she was paid half or full
         salary from the funds of the Government;

    (c) any period during which he or she has been absent from duty on leave
        with full salary or half salary;

    (d) any period during which he or she has been absent from duty on leave
         without salary, granted on grounds of public policy with the approval
         of the President, and during which he or she has not qualified for
         pension or gratuity in respect of other public service;

    (e) any period during which an officer shall have been seconded for other
        public service or for service under a public body with the approval of
        the President;

    (f) any period during which an officer has been granted leave without
        salary to serve under a private body with the approval of the President
        unless the officer has exercised an irrevocable option not to have the
        period taken into account as pensionable service;

    (g) any period during which he or she is required to serve in a
         non-pensionable office established under the Constitution and
         regulation 25 does not apply.

Service to be unbroken

 6.—(1) Service in respect of which pensions or gratuities may be granted must
be unbroken, except in cases where —

        (a) the service has been interrupted by abolition of office or other
             temporary suspension of employment not arising from misconduct or
             voluntary resignation; or

        (b) the break in service is caused by retirement under the provisions of the
             Instruction Manual for the time being in force on the election of an
             officer as a Member of Parliament or of any local government
             authority.

 (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), an officer —

        (a) whose pension has been suspended under regulation 17; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.  Pensions Act 1956                                         26

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

(b) who has retired from the public service without pension on account of
     ill health, abolition of office or reorganisation designed to effect
     greater efficiency and economy, and has subsequently been
     re-employed in the public service,

may, if the relevant Pension Authority thinks fit, be granted the pension or gratuity
for which the officer would have been eligible if any break in his or her public
service immediately prior to such suspension, re-employment or employment had
not occurred and such pension shall be in lieu of —

(c) any pension previously granted to him or her in respect of his or her
    service under the Government; and

(d) any gratuity so granted which is required to be refunded as a condition
     of the application to the officer of this paragraph,

but in addition to any gratuity so granted which is not required to be refunded.

 (3) In calculating a pension or gratuity granted under paragraph (2), no account
is to be taken for any purposes of the period during which the officer was not in
public service.

Acting service

 7. Where an officer has performed acting service in a pensionable office under
the Government, the period of the service may be taken into account as
pensionable service if the period of such acting service —

        (a) was not part of the pensionable service of a substantive holder of the
             office and is not taken into account as part of the officer’s own
             pensionable service in other public service; and

        (b) is immediately preceded or followed by service in a substantive
             capacity in a pensionable office under the Government or in an office
             which is a pensionable office as regards previous service, and not
             otherwise.

Non-pensionable service when to count

 8.—(1) Only service in a pensionable office is to be taken into account as
pensionable service.

 (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1) —

        (a) where a period of service in a civil capacity otherwise than in a
             pensionable office is immediately followed by service in a pensionable
             office and the officer is confirmed therein, the whole of such period
             may be taken into account as pensionable service;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
27  Pensions Act 1956                                         2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

    (b) any break in service which may be disregarded under regulation 6(2)
         may likewise be disregarded in determining for the purposes of
         sub-paragraph (a) whether one period of service immediately follows
         another period of service;

    (c) any period during which an officer on the pensionable establishment
        has served on duty in Malaya or in Brunei Darussalam, whether in a
        pensionable office or not, may be regarded as pensionable service; and

    (d) any period during which an officer has served in the Singapore Armed
         Forces immediately prior to the officer’s transfer to the public service
         and which period would have counted as pensionable service under the
         Singapore Armed Forces (Pensions) Regulations, may be regarded as
         pensionable service.

War service how reckoned

 9. Any period during which an officer absent on leave from Singapore has, with
the consent of the President, served with the Singapore Armed Forces or in any
capacity connected with a state of war, may be reckoned as service on full pay for
the purposes of these Regulations.

Full-time national service is deemed to be public service and period of such
service may be reckoned as pensionable service

 10.—(1) Full-time national service under section 12 of the Enlistment Act 1970
or under the provisions of any written law repealed by that Act, is deemed to be
public service and a person who has rendered such service, either before or after
the person became the holder of a pensionable office, is deemed to have been or to
have continued to be (as the case may be) an officer in the public service for the
period of such full-time national service for the purposes of the Act.

 (2) Any period during which a person has rendered full-time national service
under section 12 of the Enlistment Act 1970 or under the provisions of any written
law repealed by that Act, may be reckoned as service qualifying for pension,
gratuity or other allowance, as the case may be.

 (3) The period between the effective date of a person’s release from full-time
national service and the date of the person’s assumption of duty or resumption of
duty (as the case may be) in the public service may be deemed to be a period of
temporary suspension of employment for the purposes of the Act.

Officers seconded to public body

 11. Where an officer has been seconded from a pensionable office to an office or
class of office which is not pensionable or to service under a public body, the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.  Pensions Act 1956                                         28

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

period of the temporary employment must be reckoned for the purpose of pension,
gratuity or other allowance, provided that —

(a) the officer retires in circumstances in which he or she would otherwise
     be eligible for a pension; and

(b) for the purposes of these Regulations he or she is deemed to hold and to
     have held, during the period of such seconded service, a pensionable
     office to which are attached pensionable emoluments equal to those of
     the pensionable office from which he or she was seconded.

Emoluments on which pensions to be computed

 12.—(1) Pensions and gratuities shall be computed —

        (a) where an officer has held one office, the pensionable emoluments of
             which are not based on a scale of increments, for a period of not less
             than 3 years immediately preceding the date of the officer’s retirement,
             on the pensionable emoluments payable to him or her at that date in
             respect of that office;

        (b) where an officer has at any time during such period of 3 years been
             transferred from one such office to another, but the officer’s
             pensionable emoluments have not been changed by reason of such
             transfer or transfers, on the pensionable emoluments payable to him or
             her at the date of his or her retirement in respect of the office then held
             by him or her;

        (c) where an officer has held an office or has served as an officer of a class,
             the pensionable emoluments of which are based on a scale of
             increments, for a period of not less than 3 years immediately
             preceding the date of the officer’s retirement, on the pensionable
             emoluments payable to him or her at that date in respect of that office
             or as an officer of that class, except that where 2 or more classes are
             subject to one time scale, they must be treated for this purpose as one
             class; and

        (d) in all other cases, on the average amount of the pensionable
             emoluments payable to the officer during a period of 3 years
             immediately preceding the date of the officer’s retirement, except
             that —

                  (i) in the case of an officer who has received promotion within
                      3 years of the date of the officer’s retirement, any services in an
                      office or class of office in which the officer served within those
                      3 years must, for the purposes of computation under this

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
29  Pensions Act 1956                                         2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

    regulation, be deemed to be service on the highest pensionable
    emoluments paid to the officer in that office or class; and

    (ii) in the case of an officer who has received promotion within
         3 years of the date of the officer’s retirement, his or her pension
         may be calculated as if the officer had not been so promoted if
         this should be to his or her advantage.

 (2) Pensions and gratuities computed under this regulation shall, where
applicable, be computed subject to the following conditions:

    (a) that where the pensionable emoluments attached to the posts held by
         an officer during the 3 years immediately preceding the date of the
         officer’s retirement have been increased at any time during that period,
         the pension or gratuity shall be computed on one-third (⅓rd) of the
         aggregate increased pensionable emoluments attached to those posts,
         as if the increased pensionable emoluments had been in force and
         payable during the whole of such period;

    (b) that in the case of an officer who has less than 3 years’ pensionable
         service, the pension or gratuity shall be computed on the average
         amount of the pensionable emoluments payable to the officer during
         his or her pensionable service;

    (c) that where the pensionable emoluments attached to the post held by an
        officer at the date of the officer’s retirement have been reduced for
        misconduct, the pension or gratuity shall be computed on the
        pensionable emoluments payable to him or her at that date or on the
        average amount of the pensionable emoluments payable to the officer
        during a period of 3 years immediately preceding that date, whichever
        is the less.

(3) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2) —

    (a) any gratuity to be granted under section 20 of the Act in respect of an
         officer who dies in the public service shall be computed on the basis of
         the pensionable emoluments payable to the officer on the date of his or
         her death; and

    (b) any pension or gratuity to be granted to an officer in the public service
         under section 11(2)(c) of the Act in circumstances where that officer
         would be eligible for any benefit under regulation 20 or 22 shall be
         computed on the basis of the pensionable emoluments payable to that
         officer immediately preceding the date of his or her retirement.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.  Pensions Act 1956                                         30

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Pensions granted for whole-time and part-time service

 13.—(1) Subject to paragraph (2), no pension, gratuity or other allowance shall
be granted under these Regulations to any officer whose whole-time is not given to
the public service.

 (2) Part-time service shall qualify as pensionable service but it shall be counted
on the basis of the proportion the part-time service bears to whole-time service
over the same period.

                                           PART 3

                    PENSION, GRATUITY AND ALLOWANCE

Gratuity and reduced pension for Gurkha

 14.—(1) Subject to this regulation, a Gurkha serving in the Gurkha Contingent
of the Singapore Police Force (referred to in this regulation as an officer) to whom
a pension is granted under the Act may —

        (a) in the case of an officer retiring before 7 December 1984, be paid a
             reduced pension at the rate of three-fourths (¾ths) of such pension
             together with a commuted pension gratuity equal to 12½ times the
             annual value of the reduction so made in the pension; or

        (b) in the case of an officer retiring on or after 7 December 1984, be paid a
             reduced pension together with a commuted pension gratuity of an
             amount equal to one one-hundred-and-twentieth (1/120th) of the
             officer’s one year’s pensionable emoluments in respect of each
             complete month of pensionable service subject to a maximum of the
             officer’s pensionable emoluments for 3 years.

 (2) The reduced pension to be granted under paragraph (1)(b) is the amount of
the officer’s annual pension less two twenty-fifths (2/25ths) of the gratuity granted
to him or her.

 (3) An officer who is paid a reduced pension under paragraph (1) shall, after the
expiration of 12 years and 6 months from the date the officer is granted the
reduced pension, be eligible for the full pension as if there had been no reduction.

 (4) An officer to whom a reduced pension together with a gratuity is granted
under the Act may, at the officer’s option exercisable in accordance with this
regulation, be paid in lieu of the reduced pension together with a gratuity the full
pension without any gratuity.

 (5) The option shall be exercisable, and if it has already been exercised may be
revoked, not later than the day immediately preceding the date of the officer’s
retirement.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
31  Pensions Act 1956                                         2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

 (6) Notwithstanding paragraph (5), if the officer has not exercised the option
under paragraph (4) before the day preceding the date of the officer’s retirement,
the relevant Pension Authority may, if it appears in the circumstances equitable to
do so, allow the officer to exercise the option at any time between that date and the
date of award of a pension to the officer.

 (7) If an officer who has exercised the option under paragraph (4) dies after the
officer has finally retired but before a pension has been awarded to him or her, it is
lawful for the relevant Pension Authority to grant a gratuity and a reduced
pension, as if the officer before his or her death had not exercised the option.

Pension options

 15.—(1) Subject to these Regulations, an officer to whom a pension is granted
under the Act may, at his or her option exercisable in accordance with this
regulation, be paid —

        (a) in the case of an officer appointed before and retiring on or after
             1 January 1995 —

                  (i) a full pension without any gratuity;

                 (ii) a reduced pension together with a gratuity ascertained in
                      accordance with regulation 16; or

                (iii) a commuted pension gratuity ascertained in accordance with
                      regulation 16 without any pension; or

        (b) in the case of an officer appointed on or after 1 January 1995 —

                  (i) a full pension without any gratuity; or

                 (ii) a commuted pension gratuity ascertained in accordance with
                      regulation 16 without any pension.

 (2) The option must be exercisable not later than the day immediately preceding
the date of the officer’s retirement, except that if the officer has not exercised the
option before the day preceding the date of his or her retirement, the relevant
Pension Authority may, if it appears in the circumstances equitable to do so, allow
the officer to exercise the option at any time between that date and the day prior to
the date of payment of a pension or gratuity to him or her.

 (3) If an officer has exercised the option, the officer’s decision is, subject to
paragraph (5), irrevocable so far as concerns any pension or gratuity to be granted
to him or her under the Act.

 (4) An officer who has not exercised an option in accordance with this
regulation is deemed to have opted to receive a commuted pension gratuity
ascertained in accordance with regulation 16 without any pension.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.  Pensions Act 1956                                         32

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

 (5) An officer who is paid a reduced pension pursuant to his or her option
exercised in accordance with this regulation shall, after the expiration of 12 years
and 6 months from the date he or she was granted the reduced pension, be eligible
for the full pension as if there had been no reduction.

 (6) Where an officer opts in accordance with this regulation to receive a
commuted pension gratuity ascertained in accordance with regulation 16, the
commuted pension gratuity is, unless suspended, payable as follows:

(a) subject to paragraph (7), part of the commuted pension gratuity, being
     a sum equal to the difference between the total amount paid by the
     Government to the Central Provident Fund on account of the officer
     with respect to the officer’s service, and the total amount payable by
     the Government to the Central Provident Fund on account of the
     officer with respect to the same service if the officer had not been on
     the pensionable establishment, together with the interest thereon, must
     be paid to the officer’s account in the Central Provident Fund; and

(b) the balance of the commuted pension gratuity must be paid to the
     officer.

 (7) Where the commuted pension gratuity ascertained in accordance with
regulation 16 is less than the sum referred to in paragraph (6)(a), the entire
commuted pension gratuity must be paid to the officer’s account in the Central
Provident Fund.

 (8) For the purposes of paragraph (6)(a), the reference to the total amount paid
or payable by the Government to the Central Provident Fund in respect of any
officer must not include reference to any amount thereof which is recoverable
from the officer’s salary under the Central Provident Fund Act 1953.

 (9) This regulation does not apply to a Gurkha serving in the Gurkha Contingent
of the Singapore Police Force.

Reduced pension plus gratuity and commuted pension gratuity

 16.—(1) The reduced pension and gratuity referred to in regulation 15(1)(a)(ii)
is —

        (a) a reduced pension equal to the amount of the officer’s annual pension
             less two twenty-fifths (2/25ths) of the gratuity specified in
             sub-paragraph (b); and

        (b) a gratuity equal to one one-hundred-and-twentieth (1/120ths) of his or
             her one year’s pensionable emoluments in respect of each complete
             month of pensionable service subject to a maximum of his or her
             pensionable emoluments for 3 years.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
33                        Pensions Act 1956                   2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

 (2) The commuted pension gratuity referred to in regulation 15(1)(a)(iii) and
(b)(ii) is —

    (a) a capital sum ascertained by multiplying the commutation factor by the
         amount of such pension that may be granted to an officer under the
         Act; or

    (b) in the case of an officer retiring before attaining his or her minimum
         age in the circumstances described in section 11(2)(e) or (i) of the Act,
         a capital sum ascertained in accordance with sub-paragraph (a), from
         which sum there must be a discount at the relevant discount rate in
         respect of each year or part thereof falling between the day he or she
         will attain his or her minimum age and either the date of his or her
         retirement or the date to which the gratuity is suspended under
         section 11(4) of the Act, whichever is the later date.

(3) In this regulation —

    “commutation factor” means 175.14;

    “discount rate” means 5%;

    “minimum age” has the same meaning as in section 11(6) of the Act;

    “relevant commutation factor” and “relevant discount rate”, in relation to an
       officer, mean the commutation factor and discount rate specified in this
       paragraph as in force on either the date of the officer’s retirement from the
       public service in Singapore or his or her appointment to such public
       service, whichever is the more favourable; and for this purpose, all
       officers appointed to the public service in Singapore before 1 January
       1995 are deemed to be appointed to the public service in Singapore on that
       date.

Case of pensioner re-employed

 17.—(1) If an officer to whom a pension has been granted under the Act is
appointed to another office in the public service in Singapore, the payment of his
or her pension may, if the relevant Pension Authority thinks fit, be suspended
during the period of his or her re-employment.

 (2) If an officer to whom a pension or a gratuity has been granted under the Act
or under any written law repealed by the Act or, in respect of other public service,
under the law or regulations applicable thereto, is appointed to another office in
the public service in Singapore and subsequently retires in circumstances in which
he or she may be granted a pension, he or she may be granted, subject to
paragraph (3) and in lieu of his or her previous pension or gratuity, a pension
computed as if the periods of his or her service had been continuous, and such

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.  Pensions Act 1956                                         34

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

pension may be based on his or her pensionable emoluments at the date of his or
her previous or his or her final retirement from the service of the Government,
whichever is the greater.

(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (2) —

(a) if on his or her previous retirement the officer was granted a gratuity
     and reduced pension, there must be refunded to the Government the
     amount, if any, by which such gratuity together with the total amount
     of such reduced pension paid during the period of retirement exceeds
     the total amount of the pension at full pension rate which would have
     been payable during such period if the officer had not elected to
     receive gratuity and reduced pension; or

(b) if on his or her previous retirement the officer was granted a gratuity
     only, there must be refunded to the Government the amount, if any, by
     which such gratuity exceeds the total amount of the pension at the full
     pension rate which would have been payable during the period of
     retirement, if no regard had been had to the minimum period of service
     qualifying for a pension and the officer had been granted a pension in
     respect of the service on account of which the gratuity was granted.

Abolition or reorganisation of office

 18.—(1) If an officer holding a pensionable office retires or is removed from the
public service in consequence of the abolition of his or her office or for the
purpose of facilitating improvement in the department in which he or she belongs
by which greater efficiency or economy can be effected, he or she may be granted
a pension at the rate of —

        (a) one five-hundredth (1/500th) of his or her annual pensionable
             emoluments in respect of each complete month of pensionable
             service until two-hundred-and-forty five-hundredths (240/500ths) is
             reached; and

        (b) one six-hundredth (1/600th) in respect of each complete month of
             pensionable service in excess of 240 months.

 (2) A pension must not be granted under this regulation exceeding in amount the
pension for which the officer would have been eligible under regulation 4 if he or
she had continued to hold his or her office until he or she reached the age at which
he or she might be required to retire, or the maximum pension prescribed in
section 14 of the Act.

 (3) The grant of any pension under this regulation shall be subject to the
condition that the officer shall be liable to be recalled for service in Singapore.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
35  Pensions Act 1956                                               2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

 (4) If an officer is not qualified for other employment in the service of Singapore
or if there is no reason in the opinion of the relevant Pension Authority to expect
that he or she can shortly be re-employed, a pension may be granted to him or her
free from the condition mentioned in paragraph (3).

Application of regulations 20 to 23 to all officers

 19. Unless otherwise expressly provided, regulations 20 to 23 apply to all
officers in the public service in Singapore, whether appointed before or after
1 April 1986.

Allowance for injured officers

 20.—(1) Where a person (other than a police officer) employed in the public
service of the Government, whether serving in a pensionable or non-pensionable
office —

    (a) has been permanently injured in the actual discharge of his or her duty,
         without his or her own fault, by some injury specifically attributable to
         the nature of his or her duty;

    (b) has been permanently injured in special circumstances which, in the
         opinion of the relevant Pension Authority, justify exceptional
         treatment; or

    (c) contracts a disease to which he or she is specifically exposed by the
        nature of his or her duty, not being a disease wholly or mainly due to or
        seriously aggravated by his or her own serious and culpable negligence
        or misconduct,

and his or her retirement, on the recommendation of a medical board or of a
medical practitioner approved by the relevant Pension Authority, is thereby
necessitated or materially accelerated, the person may be granted in respect of
such injury or disease, in addition to any pension, gratuity or other allowance
granted under these Regulations, an annual allowance at the rate of the proportion
of his or her emoluments at the date of his or her injury or contraction of the
disease, as shown in the following table:

where his or her capacity to contribute to his or her support is —

     (i) slightly impaired      — five-sixtieths (5/60ths);
    (ii) impaired               — ten-sixtieths (10/60ths);
    (iii) materially impaired   — fifteen-sixtieths (15/60ths);
    (iv) totally destroyed      — twenty-sixtieths (20/60ths).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.  Pensions Act 1956                                         36

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

 (2) No allowance granted under paragraph (1), together with any pension
granted under these Regulations, shall exceed the limit prescribed in section 14 of
the Act.

 (3) The amount of the annual allowance must be reduced to such an extent as the
relevant Pension Authority thinks reasonable in the following cases:

(a) where the person so injured or suffering from ill health or disease has
     continued to serve for not less than one year after such injury, or after
     contracting such ill health or disease in respect of which he or she
     retires;

(b) where the person so injured or suffering from ill health or disease is —

          (i) in the case of officers in the public service in Singapore on
              1 July 1956, not less than 50 years old at the date of such injury,
              or contraction of such ill health or disease; and

          (ii) in the case of other officers not less than 45 years old at the date
               of such injury, or contraction of such ill health or disease; or

(c) where such injury, ill health or disease is not the sole cause of
    retirement, but the retirement is caused partly by age or infirmity not
    due to such injury, ill health or disease.

 (4) Where the person so injured or suffering from ill health or disease holds a
pensionable office and his or her length of service is not such as to qualify him or
her for a pension under regulation 4, but he or she is qualified for a gratuity under
regulation 26, he or she may be granted in lieu of such gratuity an annual
allowance of one six-hundredth (1/600th) of his or her annual pensionable
emoluments for each complete month of pensionable service in addition to the
allowance which may be awarded to him or her under this regulation.

 (5) An officer so injured or suffering from ill health or disease who is not
qualified for either a pension under regulation 4 or a gratuity under regulation 26
may nevertheless be granted a pension of the same amount as the additional
allowance which he or she might have been granted if he or she had been so
qualified.

 (6) Where it appears that the person so injured would, but for this paragraph, in
respect of the same injury, be —

(a) entitled to compensation under the Work Injury Compensation
     Act 2019 or the Work Injury Compensation Act (Cap. 354,
     2009 Revised Edition) repealed by that Act (called in these
     Regulations the relevant Work Injury Compensation Act); and

(b) eligible to receive an allowance under this regulation,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
37                         Pensions Act 1956                        2020 Ed.

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

he or she shall be required to elect whether he or she will receive compensation
under that Act or an allowance under this regulation.

 (7) If the person elects under paragraph (6) to receive compensation under the
relevant Work Injury Compensation Act, he or she must receive no allowance
under this regulation.

 (8) Where the person so injured, having elected to receive an allowance under
this regulation and having been granted such allowance, subsequently institutes
proceedings under the relevant Work Injury Compensation Act in respect of the
same injury on account of which such allowance was granted, such allowance may
be cancelled at any time.

(9) If —

    (a) an officer proceeding by a route approved by the Minister to or from
         Singapore at the commencement or termination of his or her service
         therein or of a period of leave therefrom, is permanently injured as the
         result of damage to the vessel, aircraft or vehicle in which he or she is
         travelling or of any act of violence directed against himself or herself
         or against such vessel, aircraft or vehicle; and

    (b) the relevant Pension Authority is satisfied that such damage or act is
         attributable to circumstances arising out of a war in which Singapore
         may be engaged,

the officer is deemed, for the purposes of this regulation, to have been injured in
the circumstances described in paragraph (1).

 (10) Where an officer is permanently injured as a result of an accident occurring
to any aircraft in which he or she is being carried in pursuance of official
instructions, he or she is deemed for the purposes of this regulation to have been
injured in the actual discharge of his or her duty and by some injury specifically
attributable to the nature of his or her duty.

 (11) Where an allowance may be granted in accordance with paragraph (1) when
read in conjunction with paragraph (10) to any person to whom paragraph (10)
may apply, the following table shall be substituted for that appearing in
paragraph (1):

where his or her capacity to contribute to his or her support is —

    (a) slightly impaired  — seven and a half-sixtieths (71/2/60ths);

    (b) impaired           — fifteen-sixtieths (15/60ths);

    (c) materially         — twenty-two and a half-sixtieths
         impaired                (221/2/60ths);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.  Pensions Act 1956                                         38

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          (d) totally destroyed — thirty-sixtieths (30/60ths).

 (12) A person shall be deemed to be carried in an aircraft in pursuance of official
instructions where —

        (a) he or she is under a duty to be carried in such aircraft either as a
             member of the crew or as a passenger;

        (b) he or she has received instructions to be carried in such aircraft from
             the Minister or the Head of his or her Department;

        (c) he or she is entitled to travel by such aircraft in accordance with any
             general circular issued by authority from the office of the Minister.

 (13) This regulation, other than paragraphs (10), (11) and (12), is deemed to
have come into operation on 3 September 1939.

 (14) This regulation does not apply in the case of a person employed or selected
for employment by the Government on or after 30 April 1955 who, in
consequence of injury, is entitled to compensation under the relevant Work
Injury Compensation Act.

Pensions, etc., to dependants when officer is killed on duty

 21.—(1) Where an officer (other than a police officer) dies as a result of injuries
received —

        (a) in the actual discharge of his or her duty;

        (b) without his or her own default; and

        (c) on account of circumstances specifically attributable to the nature of
             his or her duty,

while in the public service in Singapore, whether serving in a pensionable or
non-pensionable office, the relevant Pension Authority may grant, in addition to
the gratuity, if any, granted in accordance with section 20 of the Act —

        (d) if the deceased officer leaves a widow, a pension to the widow, while
             unmarried and of good character, at a rate not exceeding
             ten-sixtieths (10/60ths) of the deceased’s annual pensionable
             emoluments at the date of the injury or $240 a year, whichever is
             the greater;

        (e) if the deceased officer leaves a widow to whom a pension is granted
             under sub-paragraph (d) and a child or children, a pension in respect of
             each child, until such child attains the age of 18 years, of an amount not
             exceeding one-thirtieth (1/30th) of the deceased’s annual pensionable
             emoluments but not less than $60 a year;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
39  Pensions Act 1956                                         2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

    (f) if the deceased officer leaves a child or children, but does not leave a
        widow or no pension is granted to the widow, a pension in respect of
        each child, until such child attains the age of 18 years, of double the
        amount prescribed by sub-paragraph (e);

    (g) if the deceased officer leaves a child or children and a widow to whom
         a pension is granted under sub-paragraph (d), and the widow
         subsequently dies or remarries, a pension in respect of each child as
         from the date of the death or remarriage of the widow, until such child
         attains the age of 18 years, of double the amount prescribed in
         sub-paragraph (e); or

    (h) if the deceased officer does not leave a widow, or if no pension is
         granted to the deceased’s widow, and if the deceased’s mother was
         wholly or mainly dependent on the deceased for her support, a pension
         to the mother, while of good character and without adequate means of
         support, of an amount not exceeding the pension which might have
         been granted to the deceased’s widow.

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1) —

    (a) in the case of a pension granted under paragraph (1)(h), if the mother is
         a widow at the time of the grant of the pension and subsequently
         remarries, the pension must cease as from the date of remarriage; and if
         it appears to the relevant Pension Authority at any time that the mother
         is adequately provided with other means of support, the pension must
         cease as from such date as the relevant Pension Authority may
         determine;

    (b) a pension granted to a female child under paragraph (1) must cease
         upon the marriage of such child below the age of 18 years;

    (c) a pension must not be payable under this regulation at any time in
        respect of more than 6 children, but the relevant Pension Authority
        may in cases of hardship authorise payment of pensions in respect of
        more than 6 children; and

    (d) paragraph (1) does not apply in the case of the death of an officer if —

    (i) any dependant of the officer (within the meaning of the Work
        Injury Compensation Act (Cap. 354, 2009 Revised Edition)
        repealed by the Work Injury Compensation Act 2019) is
        entitled to compensation under the repealed Work Injury
        Compensation Act (Cap. 354, 2009 Revised Edition); or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.                  Pensions Act 1956                         40

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          (ii) any relative of the officer (within the meaning of the Work
               Injury Compensation Act 2019) is entitled to compensation
               under that Act.

(3) In this regulation —

“child” includes —

          (a) a posthumous child;

          (b) a stepchild or illegitimate child born before the date of the injury
               and wholly or mainly dependent upon the deceased officer for
               support; and

          (c) an adopted child, adopted in accordance with any statutory
              provision before the date of injury, and dependent upon the
              deceased officer for support;

“pensionable emoluments”, in relation to an officer not holding a pensionable
   office, means the emoluments enjoyed by the officer which would have
   been pensionable emoluments if the office held by the officer had been a
   pensionable office.

(4) If —

(a) an officer proceeding by a route approved by the Minister to or from
     Singapore at the commencement or termination of his or her service
     therein, or of a period of leave therefrom dies as a result of damage to
     the vessel, aircraft or vehicle, in which he or she is travelling or of any
     act of violence directed against himself or herself or against such
     vessel, aircraft or vehicle; and

(b) the relevant Pension Authority is satisfied that such damage or act is
     attributable to circumstances arising out of a war in which Singapore
     may be engaged,

the officer is deemed, for the purposes of this regulation, to have died in the
circumstances described in paragraph (1).

 (5) When an officer dies as a result of injuries received in an accident occurring
to any aircraft in which the officer is being carried in pursuance of official
instructions, as defined in regulation 20(12), the officer is deemed to have died as
a result of injuries received in the actual discharge of his or her duty and on
account of circumstances specifically attributable to the nature of his or her duty.

 (6) In calculating any pension payable under this regulation in respect of an
officer referred to in paragraph (5), paragraph (1) must be read as if —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
41  Pensions Act 1956                                         2020 Ed.

                       FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

    (a) the words “fifteen-sixtieths (15/60ths)” had been substituted for the
         words “ten-sixtieths (10/60ths)” appearing in sub-paragraph (d) of that
         paragraph; and

    (b) the words “one-sixth (1/6th)” had been substituted for the words
         “one-thirtieth (1/30th)” appearing in sub-paragraph (e) of that
         paragraph.

 (7) This regulation, other than paragraphs (5) and (6), is deemed to have come
into operation on 3 September 1939.

(8) Where an officer other than a police officer —

    (a) sustains a partial disablement or total disablement from an injury; or

    (b) dies as a result of the injuries received in special circumstances,

which, in the opinion of the relevant Pension Authority, justify exceptional
treatment, regulations 22 and 23 apply in lieu of this regulation as if the officer
were a police officer.

Allowance for injured police officers and pensions, etc., when police officer
is killed on duty

 22.—(1) Where a police officer is injured in any of the following circumstances:

        (a) while on duty or whilst on a journey necessary to enable him or her to
             report for duty or to return home after duty;

        (b) while not on duty in the performance of some act which is within the
             scope of a constable’s ordinary duties;

        (c) in consequence of some act performed in the execution of his or her
             duty;

        (d) while acting as a fireman, or assisting in the extinguishment of fire, or
             in protecting life or property from fire,

the police officer is deemed to have sustained an injury in the execution of his or
her duty.

 (2) Any injury intentionally inflicted, or incurred in the performance of a duty
involving special risks, is deemed to be a non-accidental injury.

 (3) Where a police officer sustains a total disablement from an injury received in
the execution of his or her duty, the relevant Pension Authority may grant the
police officer —

        (a) if the injury is non-accidental, such proportion of the annual pay as is
             specified in Scale No. 1 in Table A;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.  Pensions Act 1956                                         42

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

(b) if the injury is accidental, such proportion of the annual pay as is
     specified in Scale No. 2 in Table A; or

(c) if it is not possible to determine definitely whether the injury is
    accidental or non-accidental, such rate intermediate between the rates
    specified in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) as the Commissioner of Police
    may determine.

 (4) Where a police officer sustains a partial disablement from an injury received
in the execution of his or her duty, it shall be lawful for the relevant Pension
Authority to grant the police officer any of the following:

(a) such proportion of the pension applicable in case of total disablement
     as the degree of disablement bears to total disablement, except that —

          (i) the pension must not be less than such proportion of the annual
              pay as is specified if the injury was non-accidental in Scale
              No. 3 in Table A, and otherwise in Scale No. 4 in that Table;
              and

          (ii) the minimum pension so payable must be $20 per month plus
               such amount as would from time to time be payable to a
               member of the Singapore Police Force in the same rank in
               respect of children’s allowances;

(b) in cases recommended by the Commissioner of Police on the grounds
     of exceptional merit, a gratuity of an amount not exceeding one year’s
     salary calculated at the rate of salary drawn by the disabled member of
     the Singapore Police Force at the time of the receipt of the injury.

 (5) Where a police officer dies as a result of injuries received in the execution of
the police officer’s duties, the relevant Pension Authority may grant, in addition to
the gratuity, if any, granted in accordance with section 20 of the Act —

(a) if the deceased officer leaves a widow, a pension to the widow, while
     unmarried and of good character, at the rate of one-third (1/3rd) of the
     deceased’s annual pensionable emoluments at the date of the injury,

     except that the minimum amount of pension so payable must be $240 a

     year;

(b) if the deceased officer leaves a widow to whom a pension is granted

     under sub-paragraph (a) and a child or children, a pension in respect of

     each child, until the child attains the age of 18 years, at the rate of
     one-fifteenth (1/15th) of the deceased’s annual pensionable
     emoluments;

(c) if the deceased officer leaves a child or children but does not leave a
    widow or no pension is granted to the widow, a pension in respect of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
43  Pensions Act 1956                                         2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

    each child, until such child attains the age of 18 years, at the rate of
    two-fifteenths (2/15ths) of the deceased’s annual pensionable

    emoluments;

    (d) if the deceased officer leaves a child or children and a widow to whom

         a pension is granted under sub-paragraph (a), and the widow

         subsequently dies or remarries, a pension in respect of each child as

         from the date of the death or remarriage of the widow, until the child
         attains the age of 18 years, at the rate of two-fifteenths (2/15ths) of the
         deceased’s annual pensionable emoluments;

    (e) if the deceased officer leaves a widow to whom a pension is granted
        under sub-paragraph (a), a pension at the rate of one-eighth (1/8th) of
        the deceased’s annual pensionable emoluments may be paid to the
        deceased’s mother, or, where the deceased’s mother is dead, to the
        deceased’s father, while of good character and without adequate means

        of support, if the mother or (as the case may be) the father was wholly

        or mainly dependent on the deceased for support at the time of the
        deceased’s death; or

    (f) if the deceased officer does not leave a widow, or if no pension is
        granted to the deceased’s widow, a pension at the rate of
        one-fourth (1/4th) of the deceased’s annual pensionable emoluments
        may be paid to the deceased’s mother, or, where the deceased’s mother
        is dead, to the deceased’s father, while of good character and without

        adequate means of support, if the mother or (as the case may be) the

        father was wholly or mainly dependent on the deceased for support at
        the time of the deceased’s death.

(6) Despite paragraph (5) —

    (a) in the case of a pension granted under paragraph (5)(e) and (f), if the
         mother is a widow at the time of the grant of the pension and
         subsequently remarries, the pension must cease as from the date of
         remarriage; and if it appears to the relevant Pension Authority at any
         time that the mother or (as the case may be) the father is adequately
         provided with other means of support, the pension must cease as from
         such date as the relevant Pension Authority may determine;

    (b) a pension granted to a female child under this regulation must cease
         upon the marriage of the child below the age of 18 years;

    (c) a pension is not payable under this regulation at any time in respect of
        more than 6 children, but the relevant Pension Authority may in cases
        of hardship authorise payment of pensions in respect of more than
        6 children; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.  Pensions Act 1956                                         44

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

(d) this regulation does not apply in the case of the death of an officer if —

          (i) any dependant of the officer (within the meaning of the Work
              Injury Compensation Act (Cap. 354, 2009 Revised Edition)
              repealed by the Work Injury Compensation Act 2019) is
              entitled to compensation under the repealed Work Injury
              Compensation Act (Cap. 354, 2009 Revised Edition); or

          (ii) any relative of the officer (within the meaning of the Work
               Injury Compensation Act 2019) is entitled to compensation
               under that Act.

 (7) In this regulation, “total disablement” means total loss of earning capacity in
any employment, and, in the case of partial disablement, the degree of disablement
must be based upon the degree to which earning capacity is affected.

Additional compensation for injured police officer or when police officer is
killed on duty

 23.—(1) Where a police officer dies as a result of injuries received in the
execution of the police officer’s duties, the relevant Pension Authority may grant
to such of the police officer’s dependants as the Pension Authority may think fit,
or if there are no dependants to the police officer’s legal personal representatives,
in addition to the gratuity payable under section 20 of the Act and any pension
payable to the police officer’s dependants in accordance with regulation 22(5),
compensation equivalent to the difference between —

        (a) the sum which the police officer would be entitled to under the relevant
             Work Injury Compensation Act, as if the police officer were an
             employee under that Act; and

        (b) the gratuity granted to the police officer under section 20 of the Act.

 (2) Where a police officer who has completed 10 years of service sustains a
permanent total disablement from an injury received in the execution of the police
officer’s duty which enables the police officer to qualify for a pension under
regulation 22(3), he or she may elect to be paid a compensation in lieu of such
pension, in which event the relevant Pension Authority may grant to the police
officer as compensation —

        (a) a sum equivalent to the amount calculated under the relevant Work
             Injury Compensation Act, as if the police officer were an employee
             under that Act; or

        (b) a sum equivalent to the gratuity computed under section 20 of the Act
             as if the police officer had died from the injury,

whichever is the greater.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
45                         Pensions Act 1956                  2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

 (3) If a police officer, who has completed 10 years of service, has been retired on
account of a permanent total disablement arising from an injury received in the
execution of the police officer’s duty and has been receiving a pension under
regulation 22, dies within 5 years from the date the police officer received the
injury, the relevant Pension Authority may grant, subject to paragraph (4), to such
of the police officer’s dependants as the Pension Authority may think fit, or if
there are no dependants, to the police officer’s legal personal representatives —

    (a) a pension in accordance with regulation 22(5) as if the police officer
         had died from the injury; and

    (b) as compensation —

    (i) a sum equivalent to the amount which the police officer would
        have received under the relevant Work Injury Compensation
        Act, as if the police officer had died from the injury and as if the
        police officer were an employee under that Act; or

    (ii) a sum equivalent to the gratuity computed under section 20 of
         the Act as if the police officer had died from the injury,

whichever is the greater.

 (4) Any compensation payable to the dependants or the legal personal
representatives of a deceased police officer under paragraph (3)(b) must be
reduced by the aggregate amount of the pension already paid to the deceased
police officer under regulation 4 from the date of his or her retirement to the date
of his or her death.

 (5) Where the aggregate amount of the pension referred to in paragraph (4)
exceeds the compensation payable under paragraph (3)(b), the excess amount is,
subject to paragraph (6), recoverable by regular monthly deductions from the
pension payable to the dependants of the deceased pensioner under
regulation 22(5).

 (6) Any deduction made from the pension payable to the dependants of a
deceased pensioner under paragraph (5) should, if it is reasonably practicable,
leave a balance adequate for the maintenance of the dependants.

 (7) Where a police officer in the pensionable service who has completed less
than 10 years of service sustains a permanent total disablement from an injury
received in the execution of the police officer’s duty, the relevant Pension
Authority may grant to the officer, in addition to a pension payable under
regulation 22, as compensation —

    (a) a sum equivalent to the amount calculated under the relevant Work
         Injury Compensation Act, as if the police officer had died from the
         injury and as if the police officer were an employee under that Act; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.                   Pensions Act 1956                        46

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

(b) a sum equivalent to the gratuity computed under section 20 of the Act
     as if the police officer had died from the injury,

whichever is the greater.

 (8) Any police officer who receives any compensation payable under
paragraph (7) is not entitled to receive any benefits payable under regulation 26.

 (9) Where a police officer, who is on the provident fund scheme applicable to
non-pensionable employees of the Government under the Central Provident Fund
Act 1953 and who has completed less than 10 years of service, sustains a
permanent total disablement from an injury received in the execution of his or her
duty which enables the police officer to qualify for a pension under
regulation 22(3), he or she may elect to be paid a compensation in lieu of such
pension, in which event the relevant Pension Authority may grant to the police
officer as compensation —

(a) a sum equivalent to the amount calculated under the relevant Work
     Injury Compensation Act as if the police officer were an employee
     under that Act; or

(b) a sum equivalent to the gratuity computed under section 20 of the Act
     as if the police officer had died from the injury,

whichever is the greater.

 (10) Where a police officer sustains a permanent partial disablement from an
injury received in the execution of the police officer’s duty and is entitled to a
pension payable under regulation 22(4), the police officer may elect to be paid a
compensation in lieu of such pension, in which event the relevant Pension
Authority may grant to the officer as compensation a sum equivalent to the amount
calculated for permanent partial incapacity under the relevant Work Injury
Compensation Act, as if the police officer were an employee under that Act.

 (11) Where a police officer, or on his or her death his or her dependants or legal
personal representatives, is or are entitled to receive any benefits under section 20
of the Act or under these Regulations, the relevant Pension Authority may on the
grounds of exceptional circumstances increase the amount of benefits payable by
another 30%.

 (12) The aggregate amount of any pension and the additional 30% of such
pension payable to the police officer or his or her dependants under paragraph (11)
must not exceed the officer’s last drawn pensionable emoluments.

Allowance for service in non-pensionable office

 24.—(1) An officer holding a non-pensionable office or a pensionable office on
a temporary month-to-month basis or on monthly salary who retires in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
47  Pensions Act 1956                                         2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

circumstances in which the officer might have been granted a pension had the

officer held a pensionable office may, if he or she has continuously served in the

Government for not less than 15 years, be granted an annual allowance not
exceeding three-fourths (3/4ths) of the pension which he or she might have been
granted had he or she been employed in a pensionable office.

 (2) In lieu of the annual allowance under paragraph (1) there may be paid to such
officer, with the approval of the relevant Pension Authority, a capital sum equal to
the amount of 5 of such annual payments.

(3) No capital sum under paragraph (2) shall —

    (a) ordinarily be paid in any case of retirement on the ground of ill health;
         or

    (b) be paid to any officer who elects to receive a gratuity and a reduced
         annual allowance in accordance with paragraph (4).

 (4) Regulation 14 applies to an annual allowance granted under paragraph (1),
and in its application references to “pension” in that regulation must be read as
references to “annual allowance”, except that —

    (a) the reduced annual allowance to be granted to an officer must be at the
         rate of three-fourths (3/4ths) of his or her annual allowance; and

    (b) his or her commuted annual allowance gratuity must be equal to
         121/2 times the annual value of the reduction so made in his or her
         allowance.

 (5) This regulation does not apply to any officer appointed to the public service
on or after 7 December 1984.

                                           PART 4

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

Transfer from pensionable to non-pensionable office

 25.—(1) Where an officer has been transferred from a pensionable office to a
non-pensionable office then at the option of such officer —

        (a) his or her service in the non-pensionable office may be reckoned as
             though it were service in a pensionable office at the pensionable
             emoluments payable to the officer immediately prior to the transfer; or

        (b) his or her service in the pensionable office may be reckoned as though
             it were service in a non-pensionable office.

 (2) This regulation does not apply to an officer who, immediately before
1 January 2015, is in a pensionable office established under the Constitution and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.  Pensions Act 1956                                         48

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

who is transferred, on or after that date to a non-pensionable office established
under the Constitution.

Gratuity where service insufficient for pension

 26. Every officer, otherwise qualified for a pension, who has not completed the
minimum period of service qualifying for a pension, may be granted on retirement
a gratuity not exceeding five-six-hundredths (5/600ths) of his or her annual
pensionable emoluments in respect of each complete month of pensionable
service.

Gratuity when nothing else is provided

 27.—(1) A gratuity or an annual allowance may, on his or her retirement in the
circumstances described in the first column of Table B, be granted to any officer
holding a non-pensionable office or a pensionable office on a temporary
month-to-month basis to whom regulation 24 does not apply.

 (2) The gratuity or annual allowance must be computed in accordance with
Table B.

 (3) Paragraphs (1) and (2) are deemed to have come into operation on 1 July
1956.

 (4) This regulation does not apply to any officer appointed to the public service
on or after 7 December 1984.

Conditions of pension

 28. It shall be a condition of the grant of every pension or other allowance that
the relevant Pension Authority may cancel or reduce it if it be shown to have been
obtained by the wilful suppression of material facts or to have been granted in
ignorance of facts which, had they been known before the retirement of the officer,
would have justified his or her dismissal or a reduction of his or her salary.

Temporary reduction of salary not to affect rate of pension

 29. Where the salary attached to any office is temporarily reduced for reasons of
public economy, all pensions, gratuities and other allowances must be calculated
on the normal rate of salary and not on the rate to which such salary has been
temporarily reduced.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
49                             Pensions Act 1956                 2020 Ed.

              FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

                               TABLE A

                                                                 Regulation 22

                           SCALE OF PENSIONS

 Completed           Proportion of Pension to Pay on Retirement
   years of
  approved    Scale No. 1      Scale No. 2      Scale No. 3     Scale No. 4
    service
                  On total         On total       On partial       On partial
.              disablement       disablement     disablement      disablement
   1 or less                   from accidental                  from accidental
       2            from       injury received       from
       3      non-accidental   in execution of  non-accidental       injury
       4      injury received
       5      in execution of        duty            injury
       6
       7            duty
       8
       9      60ths            60ths              60ths          60ths
       10
       11     45               30                 20             10
       12
       13     45               30                 20             10
       14
       15     45               30                 20             10
       16
       17     45               30                 20             10
       18
       19     45               30                 20             10

              45               30                 20             10

              45               30                 20             10

              45               30                 20             10

              45               30                 20             10

              45               30                 20             10

              48               32                 21             11

              48               32                 21             12

              48               32                 23             13

              48               32                 24             14

              48               32                 25             15

              51               34                 26             16

              51               34                 27             17

              51               34                 28             18

              51               34                 29             19

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.                     Pensions Act 1956                             50

                        FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Completed               Proportion of Pension to Pay on Retirement
 years of
 approved   Scale No. 1         Scale No. 2   Scale No. 3     Scale No. 4
  service
                On total         On total       On partial       On partial
     20      disablement       disablement     disablement      disablement
     21                      from accidental                  from accidental
     22           from       injury received       from
     23     non-accidental   in execution of  non-accidental       injury
     24     injury received
     25     in execution of        duty            injury
     26
     27           duty
     28
     29     51                  34              30                  20
30 or over
            54                  36              32                  22

            54                  36              34                  24

            54                  36              36                  26

            54                  36              38                  28

            54                  36              40                  30

            57                  38              40                  32

            57                  38              40                  34

            57                  38              40                  36

            57                  38              40                  38

            60                  40              40                  40

                                TABLE B

                                                                    Regulation 27

            GRATUITIES AND ALLOWANCES

          First column       .                Second column

 Years of Service of Officer           Gratuity or Allowance Payable

1. 10 years service or above .  An annual allowance equal to one-half (1/2)
   but below 15 years in a      of the pension which might have been
   non-pensionable office or a  granted had the officer retired in similar
   pensionable office on a      circumstances while holding a pensionable
   temporary month-to-month     office; or a capital sum equal to the amount
   basis                        of 5 of such annual payments with the
                                consent of the relevant Pension Authority,
                                except that no capital sum shall, unless in all

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
51                           Pensions Act 1956                2020 Ed.

                  FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

    First column                .  Second column

Years of Service of Officer        Gratuity or Allowance Payable

2. Below 10 years service in a     the circumstances of the case seem
   non-pensionable office or a     reasonable to the relevant Pension
   pensionable office on a         Authority, be paid if the officer retired on
   temporary month-to-month        the ground of ill health.
   basis
                                   A gratuity equal to one-half (1/2) of
                                   one-tenth (1/10th) of a month’s salary for
                                   each complete month of service, if the
                                   officer retired on the ground of ill health
                                   or on account of age limit or, if the officer
                                   was holding a non-pensionable office, on
                                   account of the abolition of any office in or
                                   reorganisation of the department to which he
                                   or she was attached to effect greater
                                   efficiency or economy.

3. 10 years service or above       A gratuity equal to one and
   as a daily-rated officer        two-thirds (12/3rds) days’ basic pay for
                                   each completed month of service. No
4. More than one year’s            gratuity is payable to daily-rated officers
   service but less than           retiring below the age of 45 years, unless
   10 years’ service as a          pronounced medically unfit for further
   daily-rated officer             service, and no gratuity is payable to
                                   daily-rated officers retiring below the age
                                   of 50 years unless it appears proper to the
                                   Government that they should through age or
                                   infirmity be retired, except that where the
                                   wife of a daily-rated officer who has died
                                   while in service or retired has herself not
                                   less than 10 years’ continuous service as a
                                   daily-rated officer, she will not be debarred
                                   from receiving a gratuity merely because
                                   she is below the age of 45 years, but will
                                   receive a gratuity where she herself decides
                                   to retire within one month of her husband’s
                                   death or retirement.

                                   A gratuity equal to seven-eighths (7/8ths)
                                   days’ basic pay for each complete month of
                                   service, only in circumstances where the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
2020 Ed.                     Pensions Act 1956                              52

                        FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          First column            .  Second column

Years of Service of Officer          Gratuity or Allowance Payable

                                     daily-rated officer retired on the ground of
                                     ill health.

5. Continuous service partly         An annual allowance or gratuity, in respect
   on monthly pay and partly         of the aggregate service on monthly pay
   on daily pay and —                calculated in accordance with the method
                                     specified in the second column of item 1 or 2
     (a) the aggregate service       of this Table or regulation 24 to which may
          is not less than           be added a gratuity in respect of his or her
          10 years; or               service on daily pay calculated in
                                     accordance with the method specified in
     (b) the officer has retired     the second column of item 3 of this Table.
          on the ground of ill
          health

                                                [5/2008; 27/2019; S 846/2014]

                           SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                                            Section 9

                                            FUNDS
    The Central Provident Fund established under the Central Provident Fund
Act 1953.

                          THIRD SCHEDULE                            Section 21(1)

                        ORDINANCES REPEALED

            Number           .                  Short title
1936 Edition, Chapter 78
No. 21 of 1947                       The Pensions Ordinance.

No. 12 of 1948                       The Pensions (Special Provisions)
                                     Ordinance 1947.
No. 16 of 1954
                                     The Malayan Establishment Pensions
1955 Edition, Chapter 57             Ordinance 1948.

                                     The Malayan Establishment (Transitional
                                     Provisions) Pensions Ordinance 1954.

                                     The Pensions (War Service) Ordinance.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                           PENSIONS ACT 1956

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                    PART 1
MALAYAN ESTABLISHMENT PENSIONS ORDINANCE, 1939

                       (ORDINANCE 41 OF 1939)

1. Ordinance 41 of 1939 — Malayan Establishment Pensions
                                    Ordinance, 1939

Bill           : G.N. No. 2211/1939

First Reading  : 28 August 1939

Second and Third Readings : 16 October 1939

Commencement   : 1 January 1934

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
                         ii

                                          PART 2
                         ORDINANCE NO. 41 (PENSIONS)

                              (1926 REVISED EDITION)

2. Ordinance IX of 1870 — Pensions Ordinance, 1870

Bill                     : S.S.G.G. No. 34/1870

First and Second Readings : 22 August 1870

Notice of Amendments     : 27 September 1870

Third Reading            : 27 September 1870

Commencement             : 27 September 1870 (passed)

3. Ordinance I of 1871 — Pensions Ordinance, 1871

Bill                     : G.N. No. 102/1871

First, Second and Third  : 17 May 1871
Readings

Commencement             : 17 May 1871 (passed)

4. Ordinance VIII of 1887 — The Pensions Ordinance 1887

Bill                     : G.N. No. 201/1887

First Reading            : 2 May 1887

Second Reading           : 4 August 1887

Third Reading            : 11 August 1887

Commencement             : 11 August 1887

5. Ordinance 23 of 1920 — Pensions (Amendment) Ordinance, 1920

Bill                     : G.N. No. 1382/1920

First Reading            : 3 September 1920

Second Reading           : 13 October 1920

Notice of Amendments     : 13 October 1920

Third Reading            : 25 October 1920

Commencement             : 10 November 1920

6. 1920 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 41 (Pensions)

Operation                : 28 November 1921

7. Ordinance 26 of 1921 — Statute Laws (Revised Edition) Operation
                                    Ordinance, 1921

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
                      iii

(Amendments made by section 3(a) read with Schedule B to the
above Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1854/1921

First and Second Readings : 22 November 1921

Notice of Amendments  : 22 November 1921

Third Reading         : 22 November 1921

Commencement          : 28 November 1921 (section 3(a) read
                            with Schedule B)

8. Ordinance 21 of 1922 — Ordinance No. 41 (Pensions) Amendment
                                    Ordinance, 1922

Bill                  : G.N. No. 332/1922

First Reading         : 27 March 1922

Second Reading        : 24 April 1922

Notice of Amendments  : 24 April 1922

Third Reading         : 12 June 1922

Commencement          : 30 June 1922

9. Ordinance 7 of 1923 — Ordinance No. 41 (Pensions) Amendment
                                   Ordinance, 1923

Bill                  : G.N. No. 246/1923

First Reading         : 26 February 1923

Second Reading        : 23 April 1923

Third Reading         : 28 May 1923

Commencement          : 9 June 1923

10. Ordinance 9 of 1924 — Pensions Amendment Ordinance, 1924

Bill                  : G.N. No. 626/1924

First Reading         : 14 April 1924

Second Reading        : 30 June 1924

Notice of Amendments  : 15 September 1924

Third Reading         : 15 September 1924

Commencement          : 26 September 1924

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
                      iv

11. Ordinance 4 of 1926 — The Pensions (Amendment) Ordinance, 1926

Bill                  : G.N. No. 774/1926

First and Second Readings : 17 May 1926

Notice of Amendments  : 17 May 1926

Third Reading         : 17 May 1926

Commencement          : 1 January 1926

12. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 41 (Pensions)

Operation             : 1 August 1926

13. Ordinance 6 of 1926 — The Statute Laws (Revised Edition) Operation
                                    Ordinance, 1926

     (Amendments made by section 3 read with Schedule B to the
     above Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1151/1926

First and Second Readings : 12 July 1926

Notice of Amendments  : 12 July 1926

Third Reading         : 12 July 1926

Commencement          : 1 August 1926 (section 3 read with
                            Schedule B)

                               PART 3
      PENSIONS (GRATUITIES) ORDINANCE, 1926

                   (ORDINANCE 1 OF 1926)

14. Ordinance 1 of 1926 — Pensions (Gratuities) Ordinance, 1926

Bill                  : G.N. No. 2074/1925

First Reading         : 7 December 1925

Second Reading        : 1 February 1926

Notice of Amendments  : 1 February 1926

Third Reading         : 1 February 1926

Commencement          : 9 February 1926

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
                         v

                                            PART 4
       MALAYAN ESTABLISHMENT PENSIONS ORDINANCE, 1948

                               (ORDINANCE 12 OF 1948)

15. Ordinance 12 of 1948 — Malayan Establishment Pensions
                                      Ordinance, 1948

Bill                     : G.N. No. S 73/1948

First, Second and Third  : Information not available
Readings

Commencement             : 1 April 1946

                                     PART 5
MALAYAN ESTABLISHMENT (TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS)

                     PENSIONS ORDINANCE, 1954
                        (ORDINANCE 16 OF 1954)

16. Ordinance 16 of 1954 — Malayan Establishment (Transitional
                                      Provisions) Pensions Ordinance, 1954

Bill                     : G.N. No. S 200/1954

First Reading            : 15 June 1954

Second Reading           : 20 July 1954

Third Reading            : 17 August 1954

Commencement             : 1 July 1954

                            PART 6
                PENSIONS ORDINANCE
      (CHAPTER 78, 1936 REVISED EDITION)

17. Ordinance 22 of 1928 — Pensions Ordinance, 1928

Bill                     : G.N. No. 1581/1928

First Reading            : 27 August 1928

Second Reading           : 8 October 1928

Notice of Amendments     : 8 October 1928

Third Reading            : 29 October 1928

Commencement             : 10 November 1928

18. Ordinance 21 of 1930 — Pensions (Amendment) Ordinance, 1930

Bill                     : G.N. No. 2026/1930

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
                      vi

First Reading         : 13 October 1930

Second and Third Readings : 8 December 1930

Commencement          : 27 March 1929

19. Ordinance 9 of 1931 — Pensions (Amendment) Ordinance, 1931

Bill                  : G.N. No. 349/1931

First Reading         : 23 March 1931

Second Reading        : 6 July 1931

Notice of Amendments  : 6 July 1931

Third Reading         : 31 August 1931

Commencement          : 18 September 1931

20. Ordinance 9 of 1934 — The Pensions (Amendment) Ordinance, 1934

Bill                  : G.N. No. 45/1934

First Reading         : 12 February 1934

Second and Third Readings : 16 April 1934

Commencement          : 8 May 1934

21. Ordinance 63 of 1935 — Statute Law Revision Ordinance, 1935
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with paragraph (aa) of the
     First Schedule to the above Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N. No. 3043/1935

First Reading         : 20 November 1935

Second Reading        : 9 December 1935

Notice of Amendments  : 9 December 1935

Third reading         : 9 December 1935

Commencement          : 31 December 1935 (section 2 read
                            with paragraph (aa) of the
                            First Schedule)

22. 1936 Revised Edition — Pensions Ordinance (Chapter 78)

Operation             : 1 September 1936

23. Ordinance 15 of 1936 — Pensions (Amendment) Ordinance, 1936

Bill                  : G.N. No. 2325/1936

First Reading         : 24 August 1936

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
                         vii

Second and Third Readings : 26 October 1936

Commencement             : 10 November 1936

24. Ordinance 53 of 1941 — Pensions (Amendment) Ordinance, 1941

Bill                     : G.N. No. 1835/1941

First Reading            : 25 August 1941

Second and Third Readings : 13 October 1941

Commencement             : 2 September 1939

25. Ordinance 9 of 1954 — Pensions (Amendment) Ordinance, 1954

Bill                     : 12/1954

First Reading            : 13 April 1954

Second Reading           : 18 May 1954

Third Reading            : 15 June 1954

Commencement             : 29 June 1954

26. Ordinance 2 of 1955 — Pensions (Amendment) Ordinance, 1955

Bill                     : G.N. No. S 9/1955

First, Second and Third  : 28 January 1955
Readings

Commencement             : 4 February 1955

                                      PART 7
      PENSIONS (SPECIAL PROVISIONS) ORDINANCE, 1947

                         (ORDINANCE 21 OF 1947)

27. Ordinance 21 of 1947 — Pensions (Special Provisions) Ordinance, 1947

Bill                     : G.N. No. S 153/1947

First and Second Readings : Information not available

Third Reading            : 29 May 1947

Commencement             : 1 July 1947

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
                         viii

                                            PART 8
                     PENSIONS (WAR SERVICE) ORDINANCE
                      (CHAPTER 57, 1955 REVISED EDITION)

28. Ordinance 42 of 1941 — Pensions (War Service) Ordinance, 1941

Bill                     : G.N. No. 1085/1941

First Reading            : 9 June 1941

Second and Third Readings : 25 August 1941

Commencement             : 10 September 1941

29. 1955 Revised Edition — Pensions (War Service) Ordinance (Chapter 57)

Operation                : 1 July 1956

30. G.N. No. S 223/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of Laws)
                                    Order, 1959

Commencement             : 3 June 1959

                                            PART 9
                                  PENSIONS ACT 1956
                               (2020 REVISED EDITION)

31. Ordinance 22 of 1956 — Pensions Ordinance, 1956

Bill                     : 47/1956

First Reading            : 7 March 1956

Second Reading           : 4 April 1956

Third Reading            : 6 June 1956

Commencement             : 1 July 1956

32. G.N. No. S 23/1963 — Pensions (Amendment) Regulations, 1963

Commencement             : 1 July 1956 (regulation 2)
                               1 February 1963 (except regulation 2)

33. Ordinance 27 of 1958 — Pensions (Amendment) Ordinance, 1958

Bill                     : Information not available

First, Second and Third  : 13 August 1958
Readings

Commencement             : 21 August 1958

34. G.N. No. S 197/1959 — Pensions (Amendment) Regulations, 1959

Commencement             : 1 May 1959

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
                      ix

35. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 26/1959 — The Pensions (Amendment) Regulations,
                                           1959

Commencement          : 1 May 1959

36. G.N. No. S 223/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of Laws)
                                    Order, 1959

Commencement          : 3 June 1959

37. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 178/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 4) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

38. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 179/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 5) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

39. Ordinance 21 of 1962 — Pensions (Amendment) Ordinance, 1962

Bill                  : 184/1962

First Reading         : 27 June 1962

Second Reading        : 6 July 1962

Notice of Amendments  : 6 July 1962
Third Reading         : 6 July 1962

Commencement          : 20 July 1962

40. Ordinance 8 of 1963 — Pensions (Amendment) Ordinance, 1963

Bill                  : 189/1963

First Reading         : 5 April 1963

Second and Third Readings : 15 June 1963

Commencement          : 1 September 1963

41. G.N. No. S 215/1966 — Pensions (Amendment) Regulations, 1966

Commencement          : 30 September 1966

42. Act 15 of 1968 — Pensions (Amendment) Act, 1968

Bill                  : 23/1968

First Reading         : 22 May 1968

Second and Third Readings : 10 July 1968

Commencement          : 20 July 1968

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
                      x

43. G.N. No. S 68/1969 — Pensions (Amendment) Regulations, 1969

Commencement          : 1 January 1969

44. Act 14 of 1969 — Statute Law Revision Act, 1969
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the First Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 22/1969

First Reading         : 15 October 1969

Second Reading        : 22 December 1969

Notice of Amendments  : 22 December 1969

Third Reading         : 22 December 1969

Commencement          : 2 January 1970 (section 2 read with
                            the First Schedule)

45. Act 2 of 1970 — Pensions (Amendment) Act, 1970

Bill                  : 30/1969

First Reading         : 23 December 1969

Second and Third Readings : 27 January 1970

Commencement          : 10 February 1970

46. Act 32 of 1970 — Pensions (Amendment No. 2) Act, 1970

Bill                  : 27/1970

First Reading         : 26 June 1970

Second and Third Readings : 22 July 1970

Commencement          : 7 August 1970

47. G.N. No. S 268/1970 — Pensions (Amendment) Regulations, 1970

Commencement          : 25 September 1970

48. 1970 Revised Edition — Pensions Act (Chapter 55)

Operation             : 1 April 1971

49. G.N. No. S 250/1971 — Pensions (Amendment) Regulations, 1971

Commencement          : 24 September 1971

50. Act 21 of 1971 — Pensions (Amendment) Act, 1971

Bill                  : 18/1971
First Reading         : 19 October 1971

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
               xi

Second and Third Readings : 2 December 1971

Commencement   : 17 December 1971

51. Act 26 of 1972 — Pensions (Amendment) Act, 1972

Bill           : 41/1972

First Reading  : 3 November 1972

Second and Third Readings : 22 November 1972

Commencement   : 1 April 1972

52. G.N. No. S 281/1975 — Pensions (Amendment) Regulations, 1975

Commencement   : 17 October 1975

53. Act 20 of 1978 — Pensions (Amendment) Act, 1978

Bill           : 12/1978

First Reading  : 27 February 1978

Second and Third Readings : 23 March 1978

Commencement   : 28 April 1978

54. G.N. No. S 283/1978 — Pensions (Amendment) Regulations, 1978

Commencement   : 22 December 1978

55. Act 5 of 1982 — Pensions (Amendment) Act, 1982

Bill           : 29/1981

First Reading  : 22 December 1981

Second and Third Readings : 3 March 1982

Commencement   : 1 January 1982

56. G.N. No. S 318/1984 — Pensions (Amendment) Regulations 1984

Commencement   : 7 December 1984

57. Act 36 of 1984 — Pensions (Amendment) Act 1984

Bill           : 31/1984

First Reading  : 19 October 1984

Second and Third Readings : 20 November 1984

Commencement   : 7 December 1984

58. G.N. No. S 97/1985 — Pensions (Amendment) Regulations 1985

Commencement   : 19 April 1985

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
               xii

59. 1986 Reprint — Pensions Act (Chapter 55)

Reprint        : 10 April 1986

60. Act 26 of 1986 — Pensions (Amendment) Act 1986

Bill           : 17/1986

First Reading  : 29 July 1986

Second and Third Readings : 25 August 1986

Commencement   : 12 September 1986

61. G.N. No. S 236/1986 — Pensions (Amendment) Regulations 1986

Commencement   : 12 September 1986

62. 1985 Revised Edition — Pensions Act (Chapter 225)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

63. G.N. No. S 484/1989 — Pensions (Amendment) Regulations 1989

Commencement   : 15 December 1989

64. G.N. No. S 31/1993 — Pensions (Amendment) Regulations 1993

Commencement   : 19 February 1993

65. G.N. No. S 19/1995 — Pensions (Amendment) Regulations 1995

Commencement   : 1 January 1995

66. Act 12 of 1995 — Pensions (Amendment) Act 1995

Bill           : 6/1995

First Reading  : 1 March 1995

Second and Third Readings : 23 March 1995

Commencement   : 1 January 1995

67. Act 8 of 1995 — Pension Fund Act 1995
     (Amendments made by section 16 of the above Act)

Bill           : 2/1995

First Reading  : 23 January 1995

Second and Third Readings : 1 March 1995

Commencement   : 1 April 1995 (section 16)

68. Act 7 of 1997 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1997
     (Amendments made by section 3 of the above Act)

Bill           : 6/1997

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
               xiii

First Reading  : 11 July 1997

Second and Third Readings : 25 August 1997

Commencement   : 1 September 1998 (section 3)

69. G.N. No. S 451/1998 — Pensions (Amendment) Regulations 1998

Commencement   : 1 September 1998

70. Act 11 of 2003 — Street Works (Amendment) Act 2003
     (Amendments made by section 23 read with item (2) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 9/2003

First Reading  : 24 April 2003

Second and Third Readings : 30 June 2003

Commencement   : 1 August 2003 (section 23 read with
                     item (2) of the Schedule)

71. 2004 Revised Edition — Pensions Act (Chapter 225)

Operation      : 1 January 2004

72. Act 5 of 2008 — Workmen’s Compensation (Amendment) Act 2008
     (Amendments made by section 40 read with item (14) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 50/2007

First Reading  : 12 November 2007

Second and Third Readings : 22 January 2008

Commencement   : 1 April 2008 (section 40 read with
                     item (14) of the Schedule)

73. Act 4 of 2010 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2010
     (Amendments made by section 3 of the above Act)

Bill           : 26/2009

First Reading  : 23 November 2009

Second and Third Readings : 12 January 2010

Commencement   : 17 February 2010 (section 3)

74. Act 38 of 2014 — Judges’ Remuneration (Amendment) Act 2014
     (Amendments made by section 4 of the above Act)

Bill           : 31/2014

First Reading  : 7 October 2014

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
                      xiv

Second and Third Readings : 4 November 2014

Commencement          : 1 January 2015 (section 4)

75. G.N. No. S 846/2014 — Pensions (Amendment) Regulations 2014

Commencement          : 1 January 2015

76. Act 27 of 2019 — Work Injury Compensation Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 83(5) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 21/2019

First Reading         : 5 August 2019

Second and Third Readings : 3 September 2019

Commencement          : 1 September 2020 (section 83(5))

77. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 114 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 114 of the Schedule)

78. 2020 Revised Edition — Pensions Act 1956

Operation             : 31 December 2021

79. Act 33 of 2021 — Judicial Service (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2021

Bill                  : 30/2021

First Reading         : 4 October 2021

Second and Third Readings : 3 November 2021

Commencement          : 14 January 2022

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
                             xv

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 14/1/2022
