      COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AGENCY ACT 2025

                               (No. 4 of 2025)

                           ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                                            PART 1
                                      PRELIMINARY
Section
     1. Short title and commencement
     2. Interpretation

                                            PART 2
                           ESTABLISHMENT, FUNCTIONS

                              AND POWERS OF AGENCY
     3. Communicable Diseases Agency
     4. Agency is body corporate
     5. Objective and functions of Agency
     6. Powers of Agency
     7. Directions of Minister, etc.
     8. Agency’s symbol, etc.
     9. Use of name, etc., of Agency

                                            PART 3
              CONSTITUTION AND MEMBERSHIP OF AGENCY

                 Division 1 — Appointment, resignation and removal
   10. Membership of Agency
   11. Appointment of Agency members
   12. Membership disqualification
   13. Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson
   14. Premature vacancies
   15. Acting Chairperson and members
   16. Removal of member
   17. Resignation from office
   18. Validity of acts, etc.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2        NO. 4 OF 2025

Section        Division 2 — Terms and conditions for members

   19.   Term of appointment
   20.   Remuneration, etc.
   21.   Vacation of office
   22.   Other terms and conditions

                                           PART 4

                         DECISION-MAKING BY AGENCY

                                  Division 1 — Meetings

   23. Procedure generally
   24. Notice of meetings
   25. Quorum
   26. Presiding at meetings
   27. Voting at meetings
   28. Execution of documents

                       Division 2 — Committees and delegation

   29. Appointment of committees
   30. Proceedings of committees
   31. Ability to delegate
   32. Validity of delegate’s acts, etc.

                                           PART 5

                                PERSONNEL MATTERS

   33. Appointment of Chief Executive
   34. Officers, etc.
   35. Preservation of secrecy
   36. Protection from personal liability

                                           PART 6

                               FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

   37. Financial year
   38. Revenue and property of Agency
   39. Bank accounts
   40. Financial accounts and records
   41. Power of investment
   42. Issue of shares, etc.

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AGENCY                                    3

Section
   43. Borrowing power

                                            PART 7
                                          GENERAL

   44. Composition of offences
   45. Offences by corporations
   46. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   47. Service of documents
   48. Regulations

                                            PART 8
                       TRANSFER OF UNDERTAKINGS AND

                               PERSONNEL TO AGENCY

   49. Interpretation of this Part
   50. Transfer of undertakings to Agency
   51. Transfer of employees and secondees to Agency
   52. General preservation of employment terms, etc.
   53. Transfer of records

                                            PART 9
             CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS

   54. Consequential amendments to other Acts
   55. Saving and transitional provision

            The Schedule

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
4  NO. 4 OF 2025

An Act to establish the Communicable Diseases Agency and to make
  consequential amendments to certain other Acts.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AGENCY                             5

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act is the Communicable Diseases Agency Act 2025 and
comes into operation on a date that the Minister appoints by
notification in the Gazette.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act —

      “Agency” means the Communicable Diseases Agency
         established by section 3;

      “Chairperson”, in relation to the Agency, means the member of
         the Agency who is appointed under section 13 as the
         Chairperson of the Agency, and includes any individual
         appointed under section 15 to act in that capacity;

      “Chief Executive” means the Chief Executive of the Agency
         appointed under section 33, and includes any individual
         acting in that capacity;

      “committee” means a committee of the Agency appointed under
         section 29;

      “committee member” means an individual appointed to be a
         member of a committee;

      “delegate” means a person to whom the Agency under
         section 31 delegates the performance or exercise of any of
         its functions or powers;

      “Deputy Chairperson”, in relation to the Agency, means a
         member of the Agency who is appointed under section 13 as a
         Deputy Chairperson of the Agency;

      “functions”, in relation to the Agency, means functions
         conferred on the Agency by this Act or any other Act;

      “infectious disease” means any disease —

              (a) that is caused or is suspected to be caused by a
                   micro‑organism or any agent of disease; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
6  NO. 4 OF 2025

           (b) that is capable or is suspected to be capable of
                transmission by any means to human beings;

   “member”, in relation to the Agency, means a member of the
      Agency appointed under section 11, and includes any
      individual appointed under section 15 to act in that capacity;

   “officer”, in relation to the Agency, means an employee of the
      Agency and includes an individual under a secondment
      arrangement which makes available the service of the
      individual to the Agency;

   “public body” means a body corporate established by a public
      Act for the purposes of a public function but excludes a Town
      Council established under section 4 of the Town Councils
      Act 1988;

   “surveillance” means the collection, analysis and interpretation
      of data related to the prevention, management and control of
      infectious diseases.

                                    PART 2
                    ESTABLISHMENT, FUNCTIONS

                      AND POWERS OF AGENCY
Communicable Diseases Agency

 3. A body called the Communicable Diseases Agency is established
by this section.

Agency is body corporate
 4. The Agency —
       (a) is a body corporate with perpetual succession;
       (b) may acquire, hold and dispose of real and personal
            property; and
       (c) may sue and be sued in its corporate name.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AGENCY                             7

Objective and functions of Agency

 5.—(1) The objective of the Agency is to prevent, manage and
control infectious diseases in Singapore.

 (2) The Agency has the following functions:

       (a) to advise and make recommendations to the Government
            on policies and strategies for the prevention, management
            and control of infectious diseases in Singapore;

       (b) to devise, organise and implement programmes and other
            activities for or related to the prevention, management and
            control of infectious diseases in Singapore and to
            collaborate with any person to devise, organise and
            implement such programmes and activities;

       (c) to conduct and facilitate research and development
            activities (including research and development activities
            within the meaning of section 3(1) of the National
            Research Fund Act 2006) relating to the prevention,
            management and control of infectious diseases in
            Singapore;

       (d) to monitor through surveillance and detection the
            occurrence or prevalence of infectious diseases and the
            vaccination coverage in respect of those infectious
            diseases;

       (e) to establish, manage and maintain systems for the
            recording and collection of information relating to
            infectious diseases;

        (f) to promote and develop professional and technical
            expertise in public health for the prevention,
            management and control of infectious diseases in
            Singapore;

       (g) to oversee, coordinate and implement public health
            education and training activities for the prevention,
            management and control of infectious diseases in
            Singapore;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
8  NO. 4 OF 2025

       (h) to oversee, coordinate and develop national public health
            functions and resources for the prevention, management
            and control of infectious diseases in Singapore;

        (i) to represent the Government internationally on matters
            related to or connected with the prevention, management
            and control of infectious diseases;

        (j) to establish standards and provide guidance for the
            prevention, management and control of infectious
            diseases in Singapore;

       (k) to oversee infectious diseases clinical services and
            capacities in Singapore so as to manage infectious
            diseases;

        (l) to cooperate and collaborate in particular with any public
            officer or other public body or Health Officer in the
            administration of the Infectious Diseases Act 1976;

      (m) to perform such other functions as may be conferred on the
            Agency by any other Act.

 (3) In addition to the functions conferred by this section, the
Agency may undertake such other functions as the Minister may
assign to the Agency, by notification in the Gazette, and in so
undertaking —

       (a) the Agency is deemed to be fulfilling the purposes of this
            Act; and

       (b) the provisions of this Act apply to the Agency in respect of
            those other functions.

 (4) Nothing in this section imposes on the Agency, directly or
indirectly, any form of duty or liability enforceable by proceedings
before any court to which the Agency would not otherwise be subject.

Powers of Agency

 6.—(1) The Agency has power to do all things necessary or
expedient to be done for, or in connection with, the performance of its
functions.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AGENCY                             9

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the powers of the Agency
include the following:

       (a) to enter into contracts, agreements or arrangements;

       (b) to acquire, develop, hold and dispose of real or personal
            property;

       (c) to appoint and act through agents;

       (d) to employ staff and engage consultants;

       (e) to publish or provide any information, or publish or
            sponsor the publication of works;

        (f) to apply for, obtain and hold, whether on its own behalf or
            jointly with any other person, any intellectual property
            rights;

       (g) to enter into agreements or arrangements for the
            commercial exploitation of those intellectual property
            rights, whether by assignment, licensing or otherwise;

       (h) with the approval of the Minister, to form or join in the
            formation of a company, association, trust or partnership or
            enter into a joint venture with any person;

        (i) to establish institutes for the conduct of research and
            development in the area of infectious diseases;

        (j) to be a member of a company, association, trust or
            partnership;

       (k) to provide financial incentives, support, grant, aid or
            assistance to any person;

        (l) to charge for the provision of goods or services, or the
            performance of work, by or on behalf of the Agency;

      (m) to waive the payment of fees and charges payable to the
            Agency;

       (n) to accept grants, gifts, donations or contributions from any
            source, or raise funds by all lawful means;

       (o) to provide technical, consultancy or advisory services to
            the Government or any other person on any matter related

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
10  NO. 4 OF 2025

            to, or connected with, the prevention, management and
            control of infectious diseases;

       (p) to collect, compile, analyse and disseminate information of
            a statistical nature or otherwise concerning matters relating
            to its functions;

       (q) to set up and administer systems for the recording and
            collection of information for the prevention, management
            and control of infectious diseases;

       (r) to do any other thing that is incidental or conducive to the
            performance of its functions.

 (3) To avoid doubt, subsections (1) and (2) do not limit any other
power given to the Agency by any other provision in this Act or by
any other Act.

 (4) The Agency may exercise its powers inside or outside
Singapore.

Directions of Minister, etc.

 7.—(1) The Minister may give to the Agency any direction under
section 5 of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

 (2) To avoid doubt, the Minister is entitled —

       (a) to have information in the possession of the Agency; and

       (b) where the information is in or on a document, to have, and
            make and retain copies of, that document.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), the Minister may request the
Agency —

       (a) to provide information to the Minister; or

       (b) to give the Minister access to information.

 (4) The Agency must comply with a request under subsection (3).

 (5) In this section —

      “document” includes any tape, disc or other device or medium
         on which information is recorded or stored;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AGENCY                             11

      “information” means information specified, or of a description
         specified, by the Minister that relates to the functions of the
         Agency.

Agency’s symbol, etc.

 8.—(1) The Agency has the exclusive right to the use of one or
more symbols or representations as the Agency may select or devise
(each called in this section the Agency’s symbol or representation),
and to display or exhibit those symbols or representations in
connection with the Agency’s activities or affairs.

 (2) A person who —

       (a) uses, without the prior written permission of the Agency, a
            symbol or representation identical to the Agency’s symbol
            or representation; or

       (b) uses a symbol or representation that so resembles the
            Agency’s symbol or representation as to deceive or cause
            confusion, or to be likely to deceive or to cause confusion,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Use of name, etc., of Agency

 9.—(1) The Agency may conduct its operations under its full name
or under the acronym CDA.

 (2) A person other than the Agency must not —

       (a) use in connection with a business, trade, profession or
            occupation;

       (b) use as the name, or as part of the name, of any firm, body
            corporate or institution; or

       (c) use in relation to —

               (i) services or products; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
12  NO. 4 OF 2025

              (ii) the promotion, by any means, of the supply of
                   services or products,

the name of the Agency or the acronym CDA, or a name or acronym
so closely resembling the name of the Agency or the acronym CDA,
as to be likely to be mistaken for it.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

                                    PART 3
       CONSTITUTION AND MEMBERSHIP OF AGENCY

         Division 1 — Appointment, resignation and removal
Membership of Agency

 10.—(1) The Agency consists of at least 7 and not more than
15 members.

 (2) One of the members (who is not the Chairperson) may be the
Chief Executive.

Appointment of Agency members
 11.—(1) Each member of the Agency is to be appointed by the

Minister.
 (2) Every appointment must be made by instrument in writing

given to the member.
 (3) The instrument must state —
       (a) the term of the appointment; and
       (b) the date the appointment takes effect, which must not be a
            date earlier than the date the instrument is received by the
            member.

Membership disqualification
 12.—(1) In appointing members of the Agency, the Minister must

have regard to whether the members of the Agency will collectively

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AGENCY                             13

possess the appropriate knowledge, skills and experience to assist the
Agency to perform its functions effectively.

 (2) However, the following individuals are disqualified from being
a member of the Agency:

       (a) an undischarged bankrupt or an individual who has an
            arrangement with any of his or her creditors;

       (b) a Judge or judicial officer;

       (c) an individual who has been sentenced to imprisonment for
            a term of 6 months or more, and has not received a free
            pardon;

       (d) an individual who is —

               (i) disqualified under section 154(1) of the Companies
                   Act 1967 from acting as a director, or taking part
                   (whether directly or indirectly) in the management,
                   of a company during the period of disqualification in
                   that provision;

              (ii) disqualified from being a director or in any way
                   (whether directly or indirectly) being concerned in,
                   or taking part in, the management of a company by a
                   court order under section 149(1), 149A(1) or 154(2)
                   of the Companies Act 1967 during the period of
                   disqualification in the court order;

             (iii) disqualified under section 58(1) of the Variable
                   Capital Companies Act 2018 from acting as a
                   director, or taking part (whether directly or
                   indirectly) in the management of a VCC during the
                   period of disqualification in that provision; or

             (iv) disqualified by a court order under section 56(1),
                   57(1) or 58(2) of the Variable Capital Companies
                   Act 2018 from being a director or in any way
                   (whether directly or indirectly) being concerned in,
                   or taking part in, the management of a VCC during
                   the period of disqualification in the court order;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
14  NO. 4 OF 2025

       (e) an individual who lacks capacity in respect of his or her
            duties as a member within the meaning of the Mental
            Capacity Act 2008, or in respect of whom an order is made
            under section 10 of the Mental Health (Care and
            Treatment) Act 2008.

 (3) In this section, “VCC” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of
the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018.

Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson

 13.—(1) The Minister may, by instrument in writing, appoint —

       (a) a member (other than the Chief Executive) to be the
            Chairperson of the Agency for the period specified in the
            instrument; and

       (b) one or more members (other than the Chairperson) to be a
            Deputy Chairperson of the Agency for the period specified
            in the instrument.

 (2) The Chairperson or a Deputy Chairperson holds office until
whichever of the following first happens:

       (a) his or her term of office as Chairperson or Deputy
            Chairperson (as the case may be) expires;

       (b) he or she ceases to hold office as a member of the Agency;

       (c) the Minister terminates the appointment as Chairperson or
            Deputy Chairperson, as the case may be.

 (3) A Deputy Chairperson has and may exercise all of the functions
and powers of the Chairperson in relation to a matter if —

       (a) the Chairperson is unavailable; or

       (b) the Chairperson is interested in the matter (within the
            meaning given by Part 4 of the Public Sector (Governance)
            Act 2018).

Premature vacancies

 14.—(1) If a premature vacancy occurs in the office of any member
of the Agency, the Minister may, subject to sections 10, 11 and 12,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AGENCY                             15

appoint an individual to fill the vacancy and hold that office for the
remainder of the term for which the vacating member was appointed.

 (2) In this section, “premature vacancy”, for an office, means a
vacancy that occurs in that office by virtue of section 21(1) or for any
reason other than the expiry of the term of office.

Acting Chairperson and members

 15.—(1) The Minister may appoint an individual (other than the
Chief Executive) to act temporarily as the Chairperson during any
period, or during all periods, when the Chairperson —

       (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

 (2) The Minister may appoint an individual to act temporarily as a
member of the Agency (other than the Chairperson) during any
period, or during all periods, when the member —

       (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

 (3) An individual is ineligible for appointment under this section to
act as the Chairperson or a member of the Agency if the individual is
disqualified under section 12(2) for appointment as a member.

Removal of member

 16.—(1) The Minister may, at any time and without giving any
reason, remove a member of the Agency from office.

 (2) Every removal under subsection (1) must be made by written
notice given to the member with a copy to the Agency.

 (3) The notice must state the date the removal takes effect, which
must not be a date earlier than the date the notice is received by the
member.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
16  NO. 4 OF 2025

Resignation from office

 17.—(1) A member of the Agency may resign his or her office by
written notice to the Minister (with a copy to the Agency) signed by
the member.

 (2) The resignation is effective when the notice in subsection (1) is
received by the Minister or at any later time specified in the notice.

Validity of acts, etc.

 18.—(1) Despite section 33 of the Interpretation Act 1965, the
exercise of any power or performance of any function of the Agency
by the Agency is not affected merely because at the relevant time —

       (a) there was a vacancy in the membership of the Agency,
            including a vacancy arising from the failure to appoint a
            member;

       (b) there was some defect or irregularity existing in the
            appointment or continuance in office of the individual
            purporting to be a member of the Agency; or

       (c) there was an irregularity in the Agency’s decision‑making
            procedure that does not affect the merits of the decision
            made.

 (2) The acts of an individual as a member of the Agency are not
affected merely because —

       (a) there was some defect or irregularity existing in the
            appointment or continuance in office of the individual
            purporting to be a member of the Agency; or

       (b) in the case of an individual acting in the capacity of the
            Chairperson, a member or the Chief Executive, the
            occasion for the individual so acting, or for his or her
            appointment, had not arisen or had ended.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AGENCY                             17

           Division 2 — Terms and conditions for members

Term of appointment

 19.—(1) Subject to section 21, each member of the Agency holds
office for a period of 3 years or any shorter period specified in the
instrument of appointment.

 (2) A member of the Agency may be re‑appointed.

Remuneration, etc.

 20. The members of the Agency may be paid, out of the funds of the
Agency, such salaries, fees and allowances as the Minister
determines.

Vacation of office

 21.—(1) A member of the Agency ceases to hold office if he or
she —

       (a) dies;

       (b) is adjudicated a bankrupt or makes an arrangement with
            any of his or her creditors;

       (c) becomes otherwise disqualified from being a member
            under section 12(2);

       (d) is removed from office in accordance with section 16;

       (e) resigns in accordance with section 17;

        (f) fails, without reasonable cause, to disclose any interest
            required under Division 1 of Part 4 of the Public Sector
            (Governance) Act 2018 and a notice is given under that Act
            to the Minister about that default;

       (g) fails to attend 3 consecutive meetings of the Agency
            without the approval of the Agency; or

       (h) is not re-appointed when his or her term of office expires.

 (2) A member of the Agency is not entitled to any compensation or
other payment or benefit relating to his or her ceasing, for any reason,
to hold office as a member.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
18  NO. 4 OF 2025

Other terms and conditions

 22. The Minister may specify other terms and conditions of
appointment of a member in the instrument of appointment.

                                    PART 4

                  DECISION-MAKING BY AGENCY

                           Division 1 — Meetings

Procedure generally

 23. Subject to this Act and the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, the members of the Agency may regulate their own
proceedings and business.

Notice of meetings

 24.—(1) The Agency must hold such meetings as are necessary for
the performance of its functions.

 (2) The Chairperson must appoint the times and places of the
meetings of the Agency, and cause notice of those meetings to be
given to each member, including those not present when the
appointment is made.

 (3) The meetings of the Agency must be held in accordance with the
provisions of this Act and Part 4 of the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018.

Quorum

 25.—(1) The quorum for a meeting of the Agency is the higher of
the following:

       (a) one-third of the number of members;

       (b) 3 members.

 (2) No business may be transacted at a meeting of the Agency if a
quorum is not present.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AGENCY                             19

Presiding at meetings

 26.—(1) At a meeting of the Agency, the following person
presides:

       (a) if there is a Chairperson and he or she is present and is not
            interested (within the meaning given by Part 4 of the Public
            Sector (Governance) Act 2018) in the matter — the
            Chairperson;

       (b) if there is no Chairperson, or the Chairperson is not present
            or is interested (within the meaning given by Part 4 of the
            Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018) in the matter, and a
            Deputy Chairperson who is not so interested in the matter
            is present — the Deputy Chairperson;

       (c) in any other case — the member elected from among the
            members present at the meeting to preside.

 (2) The person specified in subsection (1)(b) or (c) may perform the
functions and exercise the powers of the Chairperson for the purposes
of the meeting.

Voting at meetings

 27.—(1) Each member of the Agency has one vote.

 (2) In addition to his or her general vote, the person presiding at a
meeting has, in the case of an equality of votes at the meeting, a
casting vote.

 (3) A resolution of the Agency is passed if it is agreed by all
members present without dissent, or if a majority of the members who
are entitled to vote on the matter cast votes in favour of it.

 (4) A member present at a meeting of the Agency is presumed to
have agreed to, and to have voted in favour of, a resolution of the
Agency unless he or she expressly dissents from or votes against the
resolution at the meeting or is prevented from voting by section 26 of
the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

Execution of documents

 28.—(1) The Agency must have a seal.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
20  NO. 4 OF 2025

 (2) The seal of the Agency is to be kept and used as authorised by
the Agency.

 (3) A document is duly executed by the Agency if —

       (a) the seal of the Agency is affixed to the document in the
            presence of one of its members who must sign the
            document to attest that the seal was so affixed, and the
            document is signed —

               (i) by any 2 members generally or specially authorised
                   by the Agency for the purpose; or

              (ii) by one member and the Chief Executive; or

       (b) the document is signed on behalf of the Agency by a person
            or persons authorised to do so by the Agency and in
            accordance with the terms of that authorisation.

 (4) A document purporting to be executed in accordance with this
section is presumed to be duly executed until the contrary is shown.

 (5) All courts, judges and persons acting judicially must take
judicial notice of the imprint of the seal of the Agency appearing on a
document.

 (6) When a document is produced bearing a seal purporting to be
the seal of the Agency, it must be presumed that the seal is the seal of
the Agency until the contrary is shown.

                Division 2 — Committees and delegation

Appointment of committees

 29.—(1) The Agency may, by resolution, appoint any number of
committees that the Agency thinks fit for purposes which, in the
opinion of the Agency, would be better regulated and managed by
means of those committees.

 (2) A committee appointed under this section may consist of any
number of individuals that the Agency thinks fit, and may include
individuals who are not members of the Agency.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (1), the Agency may appoint
committees —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AGENCY                             21

       (a) to advise the Agency on any matters relating to the
            Agency’s functions and powers that are referred to the
            committee by the Agency; or

       (b) to perform or exercise any of the Agency’s functions and
            powers that are delegated to the committee, if the
            committee includes at least one member of the Agency.

 (4) An individual may not be appointed as a member of a committee
unless, before appointment, he or she discloses to the Agency the
details of any interest (within the meaning given by Part 4 of the
Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018) the individual may have if he
or she were a member of that committee.

Proceedings of committees

 30.—(1) Section 18 applies to a committee, and to committee
members or individuals purporting to be committee members, with
the necessary modifications.

 (2) Subject to this Act and the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, a committee may regulate its own proceedings and
business.

Ability to delegate

 31.—(1) The Agency may delegate any of its functions or powers,
either generally or specially and subject to any conditions or
restrictions that it thinks fit, to any of the following persons:

       (a) a member of the Agency;

       (b) the Chief Executive or an officer of the Agency;

       (c) a committee of the Agency that includes at least
            one member of the Agency;

       (d) a company that is incorporated in Singapore and is a
            subsidiary of the Agency.

 (2) A delegation under subsection (1) must be by resolution and
written notice given to the delegate.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
22  NO. 4 OF 2025

 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply to any function or power under
this Act or any other Act that is declared by this Act or that other Act
to be non‑delegable.

 (4) A delegation in accordance with this section is not affected —

       (a) by any change in the membership of a committee
            (where the delegate is the committee), so long as the
            committee includes at least one member of the Agency; or

       (b) by any change in the individual appointed as the Chief
            Executive or holding any specified office in the Agency
            (where the delegate is the Chief Executive or the holder of
            the specified office).

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (1)(d), a company is a subsidiary
of the Agency if —

       (a) the Agency is the sole member of that company; or

       (b) the Agency, as a member of that company, holds more than
            half of the voting power in that company.

Validity of delegate’s acts, etc.

 32. A delegate who purports to perform a function or exercise a
power under delegation —

       (a) is taken to do so in accordance with the terms of the
            delegation under section 31, unless the contrary is shown;
            and

       (b) must produce evidence of the delegation, if reasonably
            requested to do so.

                                    PART 5

                         PERSONNEL MATTERS

Appointment of Chief Executive

 33.—(1) There must be a Chief Executive of the Agency, whose
appointment, removal, discipline and promotion must be in
accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AGENCY                             23

 (2) The Agency may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint an individual to act temporarily as the Chief
Executive during any period, or during all periods, when the Chief
Executive —

       (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

Officers, etc.

 34. The Agency may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint and employ, on such terms and conditions as the
Agency may determine, such other officers, consultants and agents as
may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

Preservation of secrecy

 35.—(1) A member, an officer, an agent or a delegate of the
Agency, the Chief Executive or a committee member, who has
information in his or her capacity as such that would not otherwise be
available to him or her, must not disclose that information to any
person except —

       (a) in the performance of the Agency’s functions;

       (b) with the prior authorisation from the Agency to do so;

       (c) for the purposes of any proceedings for an offence under
            this Act, or any report of those proceedings;

       (d) as required by an order of court;

       (e) in complying with the requirements in this Act for a
            member of the Agency or a committee member to disclose
            an interest; or

        (f) as required or allowed by this Act or any other Act.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
24  NO. 4 OF 2025

Protection from personal liability

 36. No liability shall lie against any member of the Agency, any
committee member, the Chief Executive or any officer or delegate of
the Agency, or any other person acting under the direction of the
Agency, for anything which is done or purported to be done, or
omitted to be done, in good faith and with reasonable care in —

       (a) the performance or purported performance of any function
            under this Act; or

       (b) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
            Act.

                                    PART 6

                        FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Financial year

 37. The financial year of the Agency begins on 1 April of each year
and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year except that the first
financial year of the Agency begins on the date of commencement of
this Act and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

Revenue and property of Agency

 38. The funds and property of the Agency include —

       (a) all moneys paid to the Agency by way of grants, subsidies,
            donations, gifts and contributions for the purposes of the
            Agency;

       (b) all moneys paid to, and all other moneys and property
            lawfully received by, the Agency for the purposes of the
            Agency;

       (c) all fees and charges payable to the Agency under this Act
            or any other Act administered by the Agency;

       (d) all moneys, dividends, royalties, interest or income
            received from any transaction made pursuant to the
            powers of the Agency under this Act or any other Act
            administered by the Agency;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AGENCY                             25

       (e) all moneys borrowed by the Agency under this Act; and
        (f) all accumulations of income derived from any property or

            money mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (e).

Bank accounts
 39.—(1) The Agency must open and maintain one or more accounts

with such bank or banks as the Agency thinks fit.
 (2) Every such account may only be operated by a person who is

authorised to do so by the Agency.

Financial accounts and records
 40. The Agency must —
       (a) keep proper accounts and records of its transactions and
            affairs; and
       (b) do all things necessary to ensure that —
               (i) all payments out of its moneys are correctly made
                   and properly authorised; and
              (ii) adequate control is maintained over the property and
                   assets of, or in the custody of, the Agency and over
                   the expenditure incurred by the Agency.

Power of investment
 41. The Agency may invest its moneys in accordance with the

standard investment power of statutory bodies as defined in
section 33A of the Interpretation Act 1965.

Issue of shares, etc.
 42. As a consequence of —
       (a) the vesting of any property, rights or liabilities in the
            Agency under this Act; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
26  NO. 4 OF 2025

       (b) any capital injection or other investment by the
            Government in the Agency in accordance with any other
            written law,

the Agency must issue such shares or other securities to the Minister
charged with the responsibility for finance as that Minister may
direct.

Borrowing power

 43.—(1) The Agency cannot raise loans for the performance of its
functions under this Act or any other Act administered by the Agency
except in accordance with this section.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the Agency may raise loans by —

       (a) mortgage, overdraft or other means, with or without
            security;

       (b) charge, whether legal or equitable, on any property vested
            in the Agency or on any other revenue receivable by the
            Agency under this Act or any other written law; or

       (c) the creation and issue of debentures, bonds or any other
            instrument as the Minister may approve.

 (3) The Agency may raise loans —

       (a) from the Government; or

       (b) with the approval of the Minister, from another source,
            whether within or outside Singapore.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, the power to raise loans
includes the power to make any financial agreement under which
credit facilities are granted to the Agency for the purchase of goods,
materials or things.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AGENCY                             27

                                    PART 7

                                  GENERAL

Composition of offences

 44.—(1) The Chief Executive, or an employee of the Agency
authorised in writing by the Agency, may compound any offence
under this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by
collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having committed
the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $2,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

Offences by corporations

 45.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

              (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   corporation and in a position to influence the conduct

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
28  NO. 4 OF 2025

                   of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                   the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the corporation; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                   type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                   take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                   commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
         meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
         Act 2005;

      “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
         partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the corporation, and includes —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AGENCY                             29

              (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

              (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
                   members, any of those members as if the member
                   were a director of the corporation;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 46.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                   position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                   case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                   offence; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
30  NO. 4 OF 2025

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the unincorporated
                   association or partnership; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the unincorporated association or
                   partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                   be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                   reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                   that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
         a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
         member of a committee of the unincorporated association,
         and includes —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AGENCY                             31

              (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
                   president, secretary or member of a committee of the
                   unincorporated association; and

              (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

      “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

Service of documents

 47.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
            if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
            address or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual; or

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
32  NO. 4 OF 2025

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

       (a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer of the
            partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the partnership’s business address;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
            partnership’s business address; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
            address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or
unincorporated association may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
            body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
            manager of the limited liability partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the registered office or principal office in Singapore of
            the body corporate or unincorporated association;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the registered
            office or principal office in Singapore of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association.

 (5) Service of a document under this section takes effect —

       (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
            successful transmission is received, on the day of
            transmission;

       (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
            becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
            it is sent; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AGENCY                             33

       (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
            after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
            undelivered).

 (6) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email may be effected only with the person’s prior written consent to
service in that way.

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

 (8) In this section —

      “business address” means —

              (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
                   last known place of business in Singapore; or

              (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
                   liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
                   last known place of business in Singapore;

      “document” includes a notice permitted or required by this Act
         to be served;

      “last email address” means the last email address given by the
         addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
         document as the email address for the service of documents
         under this Act;

      “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
         place of residence in Singapore.

Regulations

 48. The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations prescribing matters required or permitted by this Act to be
prescribed, or necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying
out or giving effect to this Act.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
34  NO. 4 OF 2025

                                    PART 8

               TRANSFER OF UNDERTAKINGS AND
                       PERSONNEL TO AGENCY

Interpretation of this Part

 49. In this Part —

      “agreement” includes an arrangement or undertaking;

      “asset”, in relation to the transferor, means property of any kind
         (whether tangible or intangible, whether arising from,
         accruing under, created or evidenced by or the subject of,
         an instrument or otherwise and whether actual or contingent)
         of the transferor on the eve of the transfer date and includes,
         without limitation, any —

              (a) legal or equitable interest in real or personal property,
                   whether situated in or outside Singapore;

              (b) chose in action;

              (c) money or securities;

              (d) plant and equipment, whether situated in or outside
                   Singapore;

              (e) intellectual property;

              (f) infrastructure, whether situated in or outside
                   Singapore;

              (g) records and information (including data) in any form;
                   and

              (h) right;

      “Health Promotion Board” or “HPB” means the Health
         Promotion Board established by section 3 of the Health
         Promotion Board Act 2001;

      “liability”, in relation to the transferor, means any liability, duty
         or obligation (whether actual or contingent, liquidated or
         unliquidated, and whether owed alone or jointly, or jointly
         and severally, with any other person) of the transferor on the
         eve of the transfer date;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AGENCY                             35

      “records”, in relation to the transferor, means registers, papers,
         documents, minutes, receipts, books of account and other
         records, however compiled, recorded or stored, of the
         transferor existing on the eve of the transfer date;

      “right”, in relation to the transferor, means any right, power,
         privilege or immunity of the transferor on the eve of the
         transfer date;

      “transfer date” means the date of commencement of this Act;

      “transferor” means one of the following, as the case may be:

              (a) the Government;

              (b) the Health Promotion Board;

      “transferring HPB employee” means an employee of the Health
         Promotion Board who, on the eve of the transfer date, is in
         any of the departments of the Health Promotion Board as
         specified in Part 1 of the Schedule;

      “transferring HPB functions” means the functions discharged by
         any of the departments of the Health Promotion Board as
         specified in Part 1 of the Schedule on the eve of the transfer
         date;

      “transferring MOH employee” means an employee of the
         Government who, on the eve of the transfer date, is in any
         of the departments of the Ministry of Health as specified in
         Part 2 of the Schedule;

      “transferring MOH functions” means the functions discharged
         by any of the departments of the Ministry of Health as
         specified in Part 2 of the Schedule on the eve of the transfer
         date.

Transfer of undertakings to Agency

 50.—(1) On the transfer date, the following assets and liabilities are
transferred to the Agency:

       (a) all assets and liabilities of the Government that relate
            solely to the transferring MOH functions;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
36  NO. 4 OF 2025

       (b) all assets and liabilities of the Health Promotion Board that
            relate solely to the transferring HPB functions.

 (2) A certificate signed by the Minister certifying whether an asset
or a liability specified in the certificate has been transferred to the
Agency under subsection (1) is admissible in evidence in any
proceedings as proof of the matters stated in the certificate.

 (3) When any asset or liability of the transferor is transferred to the
Agency under subsection (1), the following provisions have effect:

       (a) the asset vests in the Agency without the need for any
            further conveyance, transfer, assignment or assurance;

       (b) the liability becomes the liability of the Agency;

       (c) all legal or other proceedings relating to that asset or
            liability that are pending immediately before the transfer
            date by or against the transferor (or a predecessor of the
            transferor) are taken to be proceedings pending by or
            against the Agency;

       (d) any legal or other proceedings relating to that asset or
            liability which could have been started immediately before
            the transfer date by or against the transferor (or a
            predecessor of the transferor) may be started by or
            against the Agency;

       (e) a judgment or order of a court or other tribunal obtained
            before the transfer date by or against the transferor (or a
            predecessor of the transferor) relating to that asset or
            liability becomes enforceable by or against the Agency;

        (f) any document in any legal or other proceedings relating to
            that asset or liability that has been served on or by the
            transferor (or a predecessor of the transferor) before the
            transfer date is taken, where appropriate, to have been
            served on or by the Agency;

       (g) any act, matter or thing done or omitted to be done before
            the transfer date in relation to that asset or liability by, to or
            in respect of the transferor (or a predecessor of the
            transferor) is (to the extent to which that act, matter or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AGENCY                             37

           thing has any force or effect) taken to have been done or
           omitted to be done by, to or in respect of the Agency;

      (h) a reference to the transferor (or a predecessor of the
           transferor) in any Act, any instrument made under any Act,
           any agreement or any document of any kind is taken to be
           or includes (to the extent to which the reference relates to
           that asset or liability) a reference to the Agency;

      (i) any agreement relating to that asset or liability and to
           which the transferor (or a predecessor of the transferor) is a
           party becomes enforceable by or against the Agency.

(4) The operation of this section does not —

      (a) constitute a breach of, or default under, any Act or other
           law, or any agreement, or otherwise a civil wrong or
           criminal wrong;

      (b) constitute a breach of any duty of confidence (whether
           arising by contract, in equity, by custom, or in any other
           way);

      (c) constitute a breach of any contractual provision
           prohibiting, restricting or regulating the assignment or
           transfer of assets or liabilities or the disclosure of any
           information;

      (d) terminate an agreement or obligation, or fulfil any
           condition that allows a person to terminate or otherwise
           releases a person from any agreement or obligation, or give
           rise to any right or remedy in respect of any agreement or
           obligation;

      (e) cause any contract or other instrument to be void or
           otherwise unenforceable;

      (f) frustrate any contract;

      (g) release a surety or other obligor or obligee wholly or in part
           from an obligation; or

      (h) constitute an event of breach of, or default under, any
           contract or other instrument.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
38  NO. 4 OF 2025

 (5) No attornment to the Agency by a lessee of the transferor is
required.

Transfer of employees and secondees to Agency

 51.—(1) On the transfer date, every transferring HPB employee
and every transferring MOH employee —

       (a) stops being an employee of the Health Promotion Board or
            the Government, as the case may be; and

       (b) is each transferred to the service, and becomes an
            employee, of the Agency on terms no less favourable
            than those enjoyed by the employee on the eve of the
            transfer date.

 (2) A certificate signed by the Minister certifying whether an
individual named in the certificate has been transferred to the service
of the Agency under subsection (1) is admissible in evidence in any
proceedings as proof of the matters stated in the certificate.

 (3) The transfer under subsection (1) of a transferring HPB
employee or a transferring MOH employee (as the case may be) to
the service of the Agency —

       (a) does not interrupt continuity of that employee’s service;

       (b) does not constitute a retrenchment or redundancy of that
            employee’s employment by the Health Promotion Board or
            the Government, as the case may be; and

       (c) does not entitle that employee to any compensation or
            other payment or benefit merely because he or she stops
            being employed by the Health Promotion Board or the
            Government, as the case may be.

 (4) Nothing in this section prevents —

       (a) any of the terms and conditions of employment of an
            individual transferred to the service of the Agency under
            subsection (1) from being altered by or under any law,
            award or agreement with effect from any time after the
            transfer date; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AGENCY                             39

       (b) an individual transferred to the service of the Agency under
            subsection (1) from resigning from that service any time
            after the transfer date, in accordance with the terms and
            conditions of his or her employment then applicable.

 (5) To avoid doubt, section 18A of the Employment Act 1968 does
not apply to the transfer under this Part of any transferring HPB
employee or transferring MOH employee to the service of the
Agency.

 (6) On the transfer date, every public officer seconded to any of the
departments of the transferor as specified in the Schedule under either
of the following that is in force on the eve of the transfer date,
continues on secondment to the Agency:

       (a) an arrangement made by the Government;

       (b) an agreement or arrangement between the Government and
            the Health Promotion Board.

 (7) On the transfer date, every employee of a public body seconded
to any of the departments of the transferor as specified in the
Schedule under an agreement or arrangement between the transferor
and that public body that is in force on the eve of the transfer date,
continues on secondment to the Agency.

General preservation of employment terms, etc.

 52.—(1) When a transferring HPB employee or transferring MOH
employee is transferred to the service of the Agency under
section 51(1) (called in this section a transferred employee), the
transferred employee’s service with the Agency must be regarded for
all purposes as having been continuous with his or her service with
the transferor immediately before the transfer date.

 (2) On the transfer date —

       (a) a transferred employee retains all accrued rights as if his or
            her employment with the Agency were a continuation of
            employment with the transferor;

       (b) the liabilities of the transferor relating to the transferred
            employee’s accrued rights to annual, sick, maternity or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
40  NO. 4 OF 2025

            other leave and superannuation become the liabilities of
            the Agency; and

       (c) a reference to the transferor in the contract of employment
            that had effect in relation to the transferred employee
            immediately before the transfer date is taken to be, or
            includes, a reference to the Agency.

 (3) Until the time the Agency draws up the terms and conditions of
employment for the transferred employee, the Agency is to be
regarded as employing the transferred employee on the same terms
and conditions of his or her employment with the transferor on the
eve of the transfer date.

 (4) Any term or condition of employment drawn up by the Agency
relating to the length of service of the transferred employee with the
Agency must recognise the length of service of that employee with
the transferor (including any previous service of that employee taken
to be service with the transferor) to be service with the Agency.

 (5) For any conduct of the transferred employee when he or she was
employed by the transferor which would have rendered that
employee liable to be reprimanded, reduced in rank, retired,
dismissed or punished by the transferor, the Agency may —

       (a) start any disciplinary proceedings against that employee;

       (b) carry on and complete any disciplinary proceedings started
            by the transferor against that employee if those
            proceedings are pending on the eve of the transfer date; and

       (c) reprimand, reduce in rank, retire, dismiss or otherwise
            punish that employee as if that employee were not
            transferred.

 (6) Where, on the eve of the transfer date, any matter about the
conduct of the transferred employee during his or her employment
with the transferor concerned —

       (a) was in the course of being heard or investigated by a
            committee of the transferor acting under due authority; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
   COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AGENCY                               41

       (b) had been heard or investigated, but no order, ruling or
            direction had been made, by that committee,

that committee must complete the hearing or investigation and make
such order, ruling or direction as it could have made under the
authority vested in it before that date, and that order, ruling or
direction is to be regarded as an order, ruling or direction of the
Agency.

Transfer of records

 53. On the transfer date, every record, or part of any record, of the
transferor that relates to the following becomes the record of the
Agency:

       (a) any asset or liability transferred to the Agency under
            section 50(1);

       (b) any transferring HPB employee;

       (c) any transferring MOH employee.

                                    PART 9
     CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS
Consequential amendments to other Acts
 54.—(1) In the Accounting Standards Act 2007, in the Schedule,
after item 8, insert —

.  “8A. Communicable Diseases . Communicable Diseases Agency

   Agency  Act 2025”.

 (2) In the Attorney-General (Additional Functions) Act 2014, in the
Schedule, after item 5, insert —

      “5A. Communicable Diseases Agency”.

 (3) In the Central Provident Fund Act 1953, in the First Schedule, in
paragraph 6, after item (9), insert —

      “(9A) Communicable Diseases Agency.”.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
42          NO. 4 OF 2025

 (4) In the Infectious Diseases Act 1976, in the following provisions,
replace “the Board” with “the Communicable Diseases Agency”:

  Section 48(2)(b)(i)
  Section 49
  Section 50(4)
  Section 63(1).

 (5) In the Official Secrets Act 1935, in the Schedule, after item 5,
insert —

      “5A. Communicable Diseases Agency”.

 (6) In the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018, in the
First Schedule, in Part 1, after item 7, insert —

.   “7A. Communicable Diseases . Communicable Diseases Agency

    Agency  Act 2025”.

 (7) In the Statutory Bodies and Government Companies (Protection
of Secrecy) Act 1983, in the Schedule, in Part 1, after item 5, insert —

. “5A. Communicable Diseases . Communicable Diseases Agency

    Agency  Act 2025”.

 (8) In the Statutory Corporations (Contributions to Consolidated
Fund) Act 1989, in the Schedule, after item 8, insert —

. “8A. Communicable Diseases . Communicable Diseases Agency

    Agency  Act 2025”.

Saving and transitional provision

 55. For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of any
provision of this Act, the Minister may, by regulations, prescribe such
provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on the
enactment of that provision as the Minister may consider necessary or
expedient.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AGENCY                             43

THE SCHEDULE

              Sections 49 and 51(6) and (7)

                                         PART 1

                                 DEPARTMENTS OF
                         HEALTH PROMOTION BOARD

1. Preventive Health Programs & Rewards Division, Communicable Diseases
   Branch

2. Research, Evaluation and Monitoring Division, National Immunisation
   Registry Branch

                                         PART 2

                        GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS

1. Communicable Diseases Policy and Preparedness Division, Ministry of
   Health

2. Surveillance, Epidemiology and Response Division, Ministry of Health

3. Division of the Ministry of Health called the Interim Communicable
   Diseases Agency

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
