THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                 CREDIT BUREAU ACT 2016

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                                                                  2020 Ed.

         Credit Bureau Act 2016

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Purpose of Act
     2.  Application of Act
     3.  Appointment of assistants
     4.
     5.

                                        PART 2

                     LICENSING OF CREDIT BUREAUS

 6. Licensing of credit bureaus
 7. Application for licence
 8. Renewal of licence
 9. Holding out as licensed credit bureau
10. Annual fees of licensed credit bureau
11. Lapsing, revocation and suspension of licence
12. Right of appeal

                                        PART 3

                DUTIES OF LICENSED CREDIT BUREAUS

13. Duties relating to customer information
14. Duty to maintain security and integrity of data
15. Duty to safeguard integrity of data through contracts with data

         providers
16. Disclosure of credit report to data subject or with data subject’s

         written consent
17. Duty to provide access to data
18. Correction of data on request
19. Correction of data on licensed credit bureau’s initiative
20. Obligation to notify Authority of certain events
21. Obligation to provide information to Authority

                                                      1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                        2

Section
   22. Obligation to submit periodic reports

                                        PART 4

                 AUDIT OF LICENSED CREDIT BUREAUS

23. Auditing
24. Powers of auditor appointed by Authority
25. Restriction on auditor’s and employee’s right to communicate

         certain matters
26. Offence to destroy, conceal, alter, etc., records

                                        PART 5

                   APPROVAL OF APPROVED MEMBERS

27. Rights of approved member
28. Holding out as approved member
29. Deemed approval and actual approval
30. Cancellation of approval or deemed approval
31. Revocation of approval or deemed approval
32. Right of appeal in respect of refusal of approval or revocation of

         approved members

                                        PART 6

                   DUTIES OF APPROVED MEMBERS OF
                        LICENSED CREDIT BUREAUS

33. Duty to maintain confidentiality of customer information
34. Duty to maintain security and integrity of data
35. Duty to correct data
36. Duty to submit data to licensed credit bureau
37. Duty to provide information to Authority
38. Duty to provide information in credit facility document

                                        PART 7

            CONTROL OF SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS,
             CONTROLLERS AND OFFICERS OF LICENSED

                                CREDIT BUREAUS

39. Application and interpretation of sections 40 to 45
40. Control of shareholding in licensed credit bureau
41. Objection to existing control of licensed credit bureau

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
3        Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

Section  Power to make directions
   42.   Power of Authority to obtain information
   43.   Power to exempt
   44.   Offences, penalties and defences
   45.   Approval and removal of chief executive officer and directors of
   46.   licensed credit bureau
         Appeals
   47.

                                           PART 8

                      INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS

   48. Inspection by Authority
   49. Investigation by Authority
   50. Confidentiality of inspection and investigation reports
   51. Self‑incrimination
   52. Saving for advocates and solicitors

                                           PART 9

                  AUTHORITY’S CONTROL OVER LICENSED
                                   CREDIT BUREAUS

   53. Interpretation of this Part
   54. Action by Authority if licensed credit bureau is unable to meet

            obligations, etc.
   55. Assumption of control
   56. Other provisions concerning control
   57. Responsibilities of directors, officers, etc., of licensed credit

            bureau
   58. Remuneration and expenses of Authority and others in certain

            cases
   59. Matters requiring approval of Authority

                                          PART 10

                                         OFFENCES

   60. Offences by corporations
   61. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   62. Offences by officers
   63. Falsification of records by officers, etc.
   64. Duty to use reasonable care not to provide false information to

            Authority

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   4

Section
   65. General penalty
   66. Composition of offences

                                        PART 11

                                       APPEALS

67. Appeals to Minister
68. Appeal Advisory Committee
69. Disclosure of information
70. Regulations for purposes of this Part

                                       PART 12

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

71. Jurisdiction of District Court
72. Opportunity to be heard
73. Power of court to make certain orders
74. General exemption
75. Power of Authority to issue written notice
76. Codes, guidelines, etc., by Authority
77. Regulations
78. Service of documents
79. Electronic service
80. Amendment of Schedules
81. Saving and transitional provisions

         First Schedule — Members of licensed credit bureau
                                   deemed as approved members

         Second Schedule — Specified provisions

An Act to provide for the regulation of certain credit bureaus, the
  credit reporting business, and certain members of these credit
  bureaus to whom the credit bureaus provide customer information,
  and for matters connected with any of these.

                                                                [31 May 2021]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
5            Credit Bureau Act 2016                         2020 Ed.

             PART 1

             PRELIMINARY

Short title

   1. This Act is the Credit Bureau Act 2016.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “advocate and solicitor” means an advocate and solicitor of the
         Supreme Court or a foreign lawyer as defined in section 2(1)
         of the Legal Profession Act 1966;

      “approved member”, in relation to a licensed credit bureau,
         means a member of the licensed credit bureau that is —

              (a) deemed to be an approved member of the licensed
                   credit bureau under section 29(1); or

              (b) approved by the Authority under section 29(6)(a);

      “Authority” means the Monetary Authority of Singapore
         established under the Monetary Authority of Singapore
         Act 1970;

      “bank”, “bank in Singapore” and “banking business” have the
         meanings given by section 2(1) of the Banking Act 1970;

      “book” includes any record, register, document or other record
         of information and any account or accounting record,
         however compiled, recorded or stored, whether in written
         or printed form or on microfilm or by electronic process or
         otherwise;

      “card issuer” means a person that is granted a licence under
         section 57B of the Banking Act 1970;

      “chief executive officer”, in relation to a company, means an
         individual, by whatever name described, who —

              (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
                   arrangement with, the company; and

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   6

          (b) is principally responsible for the management and
               conduct of the business of the company;

“company” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“consumer credit reporting business” means a credit reporting
   business concerning credit reports of individuals in their
   personal capacity;

“corporate credit reporting business” means a credit reporting
   business that is not a consumer credit reporting business;

“credit bureau” means an entity that carries on a credit reporting
   business;

“credit facility” means —

          (a) an advance, a loan or other facility that gives a person
               access to funds or financial guarantees; or

          (b) the incurring by a person of other liabilities on behalf
               of another;

“credit report” means a communication, whether in written, oral
   or other form —

          (a) prepared using customer information provided by at
               least one bank or merchant bank that is a member of a
               credit bureau, to assess the creditworthiness of a
               person, including —

          (i) information about the person’s eligibility to be
              provided with credit;

          (ii) information about the person’s history in
               relation to credit;

          (iii) information about the person’s capacity to
                repay credit provided to the person; or

          (iv) any other information relating to the person’s
               creditworthiness; or

          (b) prepared by a licensed credit bureau for any other
               purpose that may be prescribed;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
7  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

   “credit reporting business” means —

   (a) a business in Singapore (whether routine or
        recurrent) that involves preparing, providing or
        maintaining, for profit or gain, credit reports
        regardless of whether the primary function of the
        business is connected with credit reports;

   (b) the business of preparing, providing or maintaining
        credit reports on a routine, non‑profit basis as an
        ancillary part of a business carried on for profit or
        gain; or

   (c) any other business that may be prescribed;

   “customer”, in relation to a member of a credit bureau,
      includes —

   (a) a person having an account with, or an applicant for a
        credit facility from, the member; and

   (b) the Authority or any monetary authority or central
        bank of any other country or territory,

   but excludes any company that carries on banking business,
   or any other financial institution that may be prescribed;

   “customer information”, in relation to a member of a credit
      bureau, means —

   (a) any information relating to, or any particulars of —

   (i) an account of a customer of the member,
       whether the account is in respect of a loan,
       investment or any other type of transaction, but
       excludes any information that is not referable to
       any named customer or group of named
       customers; or

   (ii) an application for a credit facility from the
        member by a customer of the member; or

   (b) the member’s deposit information;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.        Credit Bureau Act 2016                             8

“data” means —

          (a) information relating to a person’s creditworthiness,
               including (to avoid doubt) customer information of a
               member of a licensed credit bureau; or

          (b) information relating to a person that is processed by a
               licensed credit bureau in the course of its credit
               reporting business,

          as the case may be;

“data provider”, in relation to a licensed credit bureau, means
   any person (including a member of the licensed credit
   bureau) that is obliged under any contract or arrangement
   with the licensed credit bureau, to provide to the licensed
   credit bureau for the purposes of the licensed credit bureau’s
   credit reporting business, any information relating to a
   person’s creditworthiness, including (to avoid doubt)
   customer information of a member of the licensed credit
   bureau;

“data subject” means the person that is the subject of any data or
   credit report, as the case may be;

“deposit information”, in relation to a member of a credit
   bureau, means any information relating to —

          (a) any deposit of a customer of the member with the
               member;

          (b) funds of a customer of the member under
               management by the member; or

          (c) any safe deposit box maintained by, or any safe
              custody arrangements made by, a customer of the
              member with the member,

          but excludes any information that is not referable to any
          named person or group of named persons;

“director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
9  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

   “employee” includes an individual seconded or temporarily
      transferred from another employer;

   “entity” means any body corporate or unincorporate, whether
      incorporated, formed or established in or outside Singapore;

   “executive officer”, in relation to a company, means any
      individual, by whatever name described, who —

   (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
        arrangement with, the company; and

   (b) is concerned with or takes part in the management of
        the company on a day‑to‑day basis;

   “Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria” means the document by
      that title issued by the Authority and published on its website,
      as revised from time to time;

   “integrity”, in relation to data, means the data is accurate,
      complete, current and not misleading;

   “licence” means a licence granted under section 7 or renewed
      under section 8;

   “licensed credit bureau” means a credit bureau that is for the
      time being licensed;

   “limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by
      section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

   “member”, in relation to a licensed credit bureau, means an
      entity that is obliged under any contract or arrangement with
      the licensed credit bureau to provide data to the licensed
      credit bureau, and is entitled under such contract or
      arrangement to —

   (a) receive or request data from the licensed credit
        bureau;

   (b) use data received from the licensed credit bureau; and

   (c) disclose data received from the licensed credit
       bureau;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   10

“merchant bank” means a merchant bank licensed under the
   Banking Act 1970;

                                                                       [Act 18 of 2022 wef 28/04/2023]

“officer” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“process”, in relation to data, means to carry out any operation or
   set of operations in relation to the data, and includes one or
   more of the following:

          (a) to collect or record the data;

          (b) to hold the data;

          (c) to organise, combine, adapt or alter the data;

          (d) to retrieve or transmit the data;

          (e) to use the data;

          (f) to disclose or report the data;

          (g) to erase or destroy the data;

“public authority” means —

          (a) the Government, including any ministry, department
               and agency of the Government, or an Organ of State;

          (b) any tribunal appointed under any written law; or

          (c) any statutory body;

“share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the Companies
   Act 1967 and includes an interest in a share.

Purpose of Act

 3. The purpose of this Act is to regulate —

       (a) licensed credit bureaus;

       (b) approved members of any licensed credit bureau in relation
            to —

               (i) their providing data to the credit bureau for the
                   purpose of the credit bureau’s credit reporting
                   business; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
11  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    (ii) their using and disclosing data received from the
         credit bureau in the course of the credit bureau’s
         credit reporting business; and

    (c) matters relating to or connected with the above.

Application of Act

 4.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), this Act does not apply to any
public authority.

 (2) The Minister may by order declare that a public authority is one
to which this Act applies.

 (3) The provisions in Parts 3 and 6 of the Act are in addition to, and
do not derogate from, anything in the Personal Data Protection
Act 2012.

Appointment of assistants

 5.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the Authority may appoint any of
its officers to exercise any of its powers or perform any of its
functions or duties under this Act, either generally or in any particular
case, except the power —

       (a) of appointment conferred by this subsection; and

       (b) to make subsidiary legislation.

 (2) The Authority may appoint one or more of its officers to
exercise the power under a provision of this Act specified in the
Second Schedule to grant an exemption to a particular person, or to
revoke any such exemption.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (2A) An appointment under subsection (2) must be published in the
Gazette.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (3) Any officer appointed by the Authority under subsection (1)
or (2) is deemed to be a public servant for the purposes of the Penal
Code 1871.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   12

                             PART 2

          LICENSING OF CREDIT BUREAUS

Licensing of credit bureaus

 6.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person must not
carry on any type of credit reporting business unless the person is
licensed by the Authority under this Act in respect of that type of
credit reporting business.

 (2) Any person that contravenes this section shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
     $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
     3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
     to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
     part of a day during which the offence continues after
     conviction; or

(b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
     the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
     exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
     which the offence continues after conviction.

Application for licence

 7.—(1) A person that desires to carry on a credit reporting business
must apply in writing to the Authority for a licence under this section.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the person in subsection (1) may
apply for a licence to carry on —

       (a) a consumer credit reporting business;

       (b) a corporate credit reporting business; or

       (c) both a consumer credit reporting business and a corporate
            credit reporting business.

 (3) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1), the
Authority must consider the application and may grant a licence to
the applicant with or without conditions, or refuse to grant a licence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
13  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

(4) The Authority must not grant a licence to an applicant unless —

    (a) the applicant is a company;

    (b) the applicant satisfies the financial and operational
         requirements specified by the Authority; and

    (c) the application is accompanied by —

    (i) such information as the Authority may require; and

    (ii) a non‑refundable application fee of a prescribed
         amount that is paid in the manner the Authority
         specifies.

 (5) A licence granted under this section is valid for 5 years or any
shorter period that the Authority may specify, and is renewable in
accordance with section 8.

 (6) The Authority must not grant a licence to an applicant to carry
on —

    (a) a corporate credit reporting business; or

    (b) both a corporate credit reporting business and a consumer
         credit reporting business,

when another person holds a licence for that business.

 (7) The Authority must publish the grant of any licence or change of
name of a licensed credit bureau in the Gazette.

 (8) The Authority may at any time add to, vary or revoke any of the
existing conditions of the licence of a credit bureau.

 (9) A licensed credit bureau must, at all times during the currency
of its licence, satisfy such financial and operational requirements as
the Authority may specify by written notice under section 75(1).

 (10) Any licensed credit bureau that without reasonable cause fails
to comply with subsection (9) or any condition imposed by the
Authority under subsection (3) or (8) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding
$10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.            Credit Bureau Act 2016                         14

Renewal of licence

 8.—(1) An application by a licensed credit bureau to renew its
licence must be —

(a) made to the Authority in writing at least 6 months before
     the date the licence expires;

(b) accompanied by such information as the Authority may
     require; and

          (c) accompanied by the non‑refundable prescribed application
              fee that is paid in the manner specified by the Authority.

 (2) If an application to renew a licence is submitted to the Authority
less than 6 months before the date of expiry of the licence, the
application must, in addition to the renewal fee, be accompanied by
the prescribed late application fee.

 (3) Section 7(3) and (4)(a) and (b) applies, with the necessary
modifications, to an application to renew a licence under this section
as it applies to an application for a licence under section 7.

 (4) Section 7(5) and (7) to (10) applies, with the necessary
modifications, to a licence that is renewed under this section as it
applies to a licence that is granted under section 7.

Holding out as licensed credit bureau

 9.—(1) A person that is not a licensed credit bureau must not hold
itself out as a licensed credit bureau.

 (2) Any person that contravenes this section shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
            to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
            part of a day during which the offence continues after
            conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
15  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
    which the offence continues after conviction.

Annual fees of licensed credit bureau

 10.—(1) A licensed credit bureau must pay to the Authority such
prescribed annual fee in the manner that the Authority specifies.

 (2) The Authority may prescribe different annual fees for different
licensed credit bureaus depending on the type of credit reporting
business they are licensed to carry on.

 (3) The Authority may, where it considers appropriate in a
particular case, waive, refund or remit the whole or any part of any
annual fee paid or payable to it.

Lapsing, revocation and suspension of licence

 11.—(1) A licence lapses —

       (a) if the licensed credit bureau is wound up or otherwise
            dissolved, whether in Singapore or elsewhere;

       (b) if the licence is not renewed on or before the expiry of the
            licence; or

       (c) upon the occurrence of such event as may be prescribed.

 (2) The Authority may revoke a licence of a licensed credit bureau
if —

       (a) it appears to the Authority that any of the following
            persons of the licensed credit bureau are not fit and proper
            persons in accordance with the Guidelines on Fit and
            Proper Criteria:

               (i) its officers and employees;

              (ii) its substantial shareholders, 12% controllers,
                   20% controllers and indirect controllers, as defined
                   in section 39(2);

       (b) it appears to the Authority that —

               (i) the financial standing of the licensed credit bureau;
                   or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   16

          (ii) the manner in which the licensed credit bureau’s
               business is being conducted,

(b) is not satisfactory;

          (c) the licensed credit bureau is contravening or has
              contravened any provision of this Act, or any condition
              or restriction imposed or any notice issued by the Authority
              under this Act;

(d) it appears to the Authority that the licensed credit bureau is
     failing or has failed to satisfy any of its obligations under or
     arising from —

          (i) this Act; or

          (ii) any notice issued by the Authority under this Act;

          (e) the licensed credit bureau has provided to the Authority
              any information or document required under this Act that is
              false or misleading;

          (f) it appears to the Authority that the licensed credit bureau,
              or any of its officers or employees, has not performed its or
              his or her duties under this Act honestly or fairly;

(g) it appears to the Authority that it would be contrary to the
     public interest for the licensed credit bureau to continue its
     operations;

(h) the licensed credit bureau fails to pay the annual fee
     mentioned in section 10(1); or

          (i) the licensed credit bureau fails or ceases to carry on any
              credit reporting business for which it is licensed.

(3) The Authority may, if it considers it desirable to do so —

(a) suspend the licence of a licensed credit bureau for a
     specified period instead of revoking the licence under
     subsection (2); and

(b) at any time —

          (i) extend the suspension for a specified period; or

          (ii) revoke the suspension.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
17  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), the Authority must not revoke a
licence under subsection (2) or suspend a licence under subsection (3)
without giving the licensed credit bureau an opportunity to be heard.

 (5) The Authority may, without giving the licensed credit bureau an
opportunity to be heard, revoke or suspend a licence of a licensed
credit bureau in any of the following circumstances:

    (a) the licensed credit bureau is in the course of being wound
         up or otherwise dissolved, whether in Singapore or
         elsewhere;

    (b) a receiver, a receiver and manager, a judicial manager or an
         equivalent person has been appointed, whether in
         Singapore or elsewhere, for or in respect of any property
         of the licensed credit bureau;

    (c) the licensed credit bureau has been convicted —

    (i) whether in Singapore or elsewhere; and

    (ii) whether before, on or after 31 May 2021,

    (c) of an offence involving fraud or dishonesty, or the
        conviction involved a finding that the licensed credit
        bureau had acted fraudulently or dishonestly.

 (6) A licensed credit bureau whose licence has lapsed, or is revoked
or suspended, must cease to carry on any credit reporting business
from the date it lapses, or the date the revocation or suspension takes
effect.

 (7) Where the licence of a licensed credit bureau lapses or is
revoked under this section, the former licensed credit bureau
concerned must —

    (a) immediately inform all its members by written notice of
         the lapse or revocation;

    (b) if directed by the Authority by a written notice, within the
         period specified in the notice —

    (i) destroy the part of any book in its possession that
        contains any data and expunge all data from its

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.     Credit Bureau Act 2016                                18

             information technology system, in such manner as
             may be specified in the notice;

          (ii) transfer all books containing any data, and data from
               its information technology system, to any third party
               appointed by the Authority, and expunge all data
               from its information technology system after the
               transfer; or

          (iii) transfer all books containing any data, and data from
                its information technology system, to any third party
                appointed by the Authority; and

          (c) within 3 months after the date the licence lapses or is
              revoked, or any other period that the Authority may
              approve for any particular case, submit to the Authority a
              report from its auditor confirming that the former licensed
              credit bureau has complied with paragraph (b).

(8) Where —

(a) the licence of a licensed credit bureau is suspended under
     subsection (3)(a); or

(b) the suspension of the licence of the licensed credit bureau
     is extended under subsection (3)(b)(i),

the licensed credit bureau must immediately inform all its members
by written notice of the suspension, or the extension of the
suspension, as the case may be.

(9) Where a licence —

(a) lapses;

(b) is revoked; or

          (c) is suspended,

the Authority must publish a notice of this in the Gazette.

 (10) Despite the lapse or revocation of the licence, and unless the
Authority otherwise directs, sections 21, 23, 48, 49 and 50 continue to
apply in relation to the former licensed credit bureau and its approved
members in respect of matters that occurred before the lapse or
revocation as if it had not occurred.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
19  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

 (11) Any person that contravenes subsection (6), (7) or (8) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (12) In this section, “information technology system”, in relation to
a licensed credit bureau, means computer servers and network
equipment operated, maintained or used by the licensed credit
bureau, and any other electronic device that contains data.

Right of appeal

 12. Any company that is aggrieved —

       (a) by the refusal of the Authority to grant a licence to it, or
            renew its licence; or

       (b) by the revocation or suspension of its licence by the
            Authority,

may, within 30 days after having been informed of the refusal,
revocation or suspension, appeal in writing to the Minister.

                                    PART 3

            DUTIES OF LICENSED CREDIT BUREAUS

Duties relating to customer information

 13.—(1) A licensed credit bureau and any of its officers must not
use any of its members’ customer information received from any of
its members except —

       (a) where it is strictly necessary to create a credit report; or

       (b) for any other purpose that the Authority may permit by
            written notice to the licensed credit bureau.

 (2) Without affecting section 16, a licensed credit bureau and any of
its officers must not disclose any of its members’ customer
information (including a credit report of a member’s customer that
contains such information) received from any of its members to any
person except —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   20

(a) to an approved member of the licensed credit bureau where
     the disclosure is strictly necessary to enable the approved
     member to assess the creditworthiness of its customer; or

(b) to any other person if it is permitted by the Authority by
     written notice to the licensed credit bureau and in
     accordance with such conditions as may be specified in
     the notice.

 (3) The Authority may at any time add to, vary or revoke any
condition imposed under this section.

 (4) Despite any provision in this Act, a licensed credit bureau and
any of its officers must not collect from its members —

(a) customer information concerning a customer that is —

          (i) a public authority;

          (ii) a monetary authority or central bank of any country
               or territory; or

          (iii) a sovereign wealth fund; or

(b) their deposit information.

 (5) Despite subsection (2), a licensed credit bureau and any of its
officers must not use or disclose to any person —

(a) any of its members’ customer information received from
     the member where the customer is —

          (i) a public authority;

          (ii) a monetary authority or central bank of any country
               or territory; or

          (iii) a sovereign wealth fund; or

(b) any of its members’ deposit information received from the
     member.

 (6) Despite subsection (2), a licensed credit bureau that holds a
licence under section 7(2)(b) or (c) and any of its officers must not —

(a) collect from its members customer information; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
21  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                    2020 Ed.

    (b) use or disclose any customer information received from
         any of its members,

concerning a customer that is a prescribed entity.

(7) Despite anything in this section —

    (a) a licensed credit bureau may disclose its members’
         customer information received from any of its members
         to any of its officers if the disclosure is solely for the
         purpose of carrying on the licensed credit bureau’s credit
         reporting business; and

    (b) an officer of a licensed credit bureau may disclose
         customer information of a member of the licensed credit
         bureau received from any of its members to —

    (i) another officer of the licensed credit bureau; or

    (ii) the licensed credit bureau,

    (b) if the disclosure is solely in connection with the
         performance of the duties of such officer.

 (8) Any person that contravenes subsection (1), (2), (4), (5) or (6)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
         $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
         3 years or to both; or

    (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000.

(9) In this section, unless the context otherwise requires —

    (a) where customer information of a member of a licensed
         credit bureau may be disclosed under subsection (2) to any
         person that is a body corporate, the customer information
         may be disclosed to such officers of the body corporate as
         may be necessary for the purpose for which the disclosure
         is authorised under subsection (2); and

    (b) the obligation of any officer of the licensed credit bureau
         not to disclose any customer information of a member of
         the licensed credit bureau mentioned in subsection (2), (5)
         and (6) continues after the termination or cessation of his

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   22

          or her appointment, employment, engagement or other
          capacity or office with the licensed credit bureau.

(10) In this section —

“officer” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Banking
   Act 1970;

“sovereign wealth fund” means the central government of a
   country or territory, or an entity wholly and beneficially
   owned by such government, whose funds (which may include
   the reserves of that government and any pension or provident
   fund of that country) are managed by a government‑owned
   entity.

 (11) This section applies to any data received by a licensed credit
bureau in a request under section 18(1) or (2) as it applies to customer
information of any member of the licensed credit bureau.

 (12) This section does not affect the duty of a licensed credit bureau
or any of its officers to provide any customer information of any of its
members to the Authority or any other person under any other
provision of the Act.

Duty to maintain security and integrity of data

 14.—(1) A licensed credit bureau must, in respect of any data that it
collects from a data provider —

       (a) ensure the integrity of the data that the licensed credit
            bureau processes (except when erasing or destroying such
            data); and

       (b) protect the data by making reasonable security
            arrangements to prevent unauthorised access, collection,
            use, disclosure, copying, modification, disposal or similar
            risks.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(a), the integrity of the data
collected by a licensed credit bureau from a data provider is assumed
unless the licensed credit bureau is required to correct the data under
section 18(3)(b)(i), 19(1) or 35(3)(a).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
23  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

 (3) Any person that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Duty to safeguard integrity of data through contracts with data
providers

 15. A licensed credit bureau must ensure that any contract or
arrangement it enters into, or renews, with a data provider on or after
31 May 2021 (whether or not the data provider is a member of the
licensed credit bureau) to receive data from the data provider includes
an obligation that the data provider makes a reasonable effort to
ensure that the data provider provides data with integrity to the
licensed credit bureau.

Disclosure of credit report to data subject or with data
subject’s written consent

 16.—(1) Despite section 13, a licensed credit bureau and any of its
officers may disclose to any of the persons mentioned in
subsection (2) —

       (a) any of its members’ customer information received from a
            member; or

       (b) a credit report prepared by the licensed credit bureau.

 (2) The persons in subsection (1) are —

       (a) the data subject of the customer information or credit
            report; or

       (b) a third party if the licensed credit bureau has the written
            consent of the data subject for the disclosure.

 (3) This section applies to any data received by a licensed credit
bureau in a request under section 18(1) or (2) as it applies to customer
information of any member of the licensed credit bureau.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   24

Duty to provide access to data

 17.—(1) Upon a data subject’s request, a licensed credit bureau
must, within 5 business days after the request or any shorter period
that the Authority may specify by written notice, provide the data
subject with a copy of the credit report of the data subject.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the licensed credit bureau may charge
the data subject a fee each time it provides the data subject with a
copy of the credit report under subsection (1).

(3) Despite subsection (2), where —

(a) a data subject (who is an individual) applies for a credit
     facility from an approved member of a licensed credit
     bureau; and

(b) the individual requests, within 30 days after the approved
     member has approved or rejected the application for the
     credit facility, a credit report about the individual from the
     licensed credit bureau in relation to the individual’s
     application,

the licensed credit bureau must, within 5 business days after the
request in paragraph (b) or any shorter period that the Authority may
specify by written notice, provide the individual with a copy of the
credit report free of charge.

 (4) The licensed credit bureau must provide a copy of the credit
report mentioned in subsection (1), in one of the following forms at
the data subject’s option:

(a) a printed copy to be collected by the data subject at the
     registered office of the licensed credit bureau;

(b) a printed copy sent by registered post to an address
     specified by the data subject;

          (c) an electronic copy;

(d) an electronic copy sent by electronic mail to an electronic
     mail address specified by the data subject.

 (5) Any person that contravenes subsection (1), (3) or (4) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
25  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

exceeding $250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

Correction of data on request

 18.—(1) A data subject may request a licensed credit bureau to
correct an error or omission in any data of the data subject that is in
the possession or under the control of the licensed credit bureau.

 (2) A data provider may request a licensed credit bureau to correct
an error or omission in any data provided by the data provider to the
licensed credit bureau.

 (3) Upon receiving a request under subsection (1) or (2), the
licensed credit bureau must —

       (a) within such period as the Authority may specify by written
            notice after receiving such request, conduct and complete
            an investigation to ascertain the integrity of the data; and

       (b) unless it is satisfied on reasonable grounds that a correction
            should not be made, within such period as the Authority
            may specify by written notice —

               (i) correct the data in its possession or under its control;
                   and

              (ii) send the corrected data to every approved member of
                   the licensed credit bureau to which the licensed
                   credit bureau disclosed the data within a year before
                   the date the correction was made.

 (4) Any person that contravenes subsection (3) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Correction of data on licensed credit bureau’s initiative

 19.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), a licensed credit bureau must
correct an error or omission in the data of a data subject that is in its
possession or under its control if it is satisfied that there is evidence of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   26

a conflict between the data and other information relating to the data
subject —

(a) in its possession or under its control; or

(b) obtained from such public authority as may be prescribed.

 (2) Except under prescribed circumstances, before the licensed
credit bureau corrects any data under subsection (1), the licensed
credit bureau must —

(a) inform the data provider that provided the data to the
     licensed credit bureau of the proposed correction; and

(b) subject to subsection (3), obtain consent from that data
     provider to the proposed correction.

 (3) The licensed credit bureau need not obtain the consent in
subsection (2)(b) if it is satisfied that any refusal of consent is
frivolous or vexatious.

 (4) Any person that contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000, and in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Obligation to notify Authority of certain events

 20.—(1) A licensed credit bureau must notify the Authority as soon
as practicable after the occurrence of any of the following events:

       (a) an event that results in a compromise of the confidentiality
            or security of any data in the possession or under the
            control of the licensed credit bureau;

       (b) any civil or criminal proceeding instituted against the
            licensed credit bureau, whether in Singapore or elsewhere;

       (c) any event (including an irregularity in any operations of the
            licensed credit bureau) that impedes or impairs the
            operations of the licensed credit bureau;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
27  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    (d) the licensed credit bureau is becoming, or is likely to
         become, insolvent or unable to meet any of its financial,
         statutory, contractual or other obligations;

    (e) any other event that the Authority may prescribe or specify
        by written notice from time to time.

 (2) Subject to subsection (1), a licensed credit bureau must notify
the Authority within 14 days after the occurrence of any of the
following events:

    (a) any change of any of its executive officers other than a
         director or the chief executive officer of the licensed credit
         bureau;

    (b) any other event that the Authority may prescribe or specify
         by written notice from time to time.

 (3) Any person that contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$250,000.

Obligation to provide information to Authority

 21.—(1) Subject to subsection (4), the Authority may, by written
notice, require any licensed credit bureau, or any person acting on
behalf of a licensed credit bureau, to provide to the Authority all such
information relating to the credit reporting business of the licensed
credit bureau within such period as the Authority may specify in the
notice.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may in the notice
issued under that subsection require any person mentioned in
subsection (1) to provide —

       (a) information relating to the operations of the licensed credit
            bureau;

       (b) customer information of any member of the licensed credit
            bureau that is in the possession or under the control of the
            licensed credit bureau; and

       (c) any other information that the Authority may require for
            the purposes of this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   28

(3) Subject to subsection (4) —

(a) a requirement imposed by the Authority under this section
     has effect despite any obligation as to secrecy or other
     restrictions upon the disclosure of information imposed by
     any rule of law or contract; and

(b) a person that complies with a requirement imposed by the
     Authority under this section is not to be treated as being in
     breach of any restriction on the disclosure of the
     information imposed by any rule of law or contract.

 (4) Nothing in this section requires a person to disclose any
information subject to legal privilege.

 (5) Any person that fails to comply with a notice issued under
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $50,000
     or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
     both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
     fine not exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of a day
     during which the offence continues after conviction; or

(b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in
     the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
     exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during
     which the offence continues after conviction.

Obligation to submit periodic reports

 22.—(1) A licensed credit bureau must submit to the Authority
such reports or returns relating to its credit reporting business in such
form, manner and frequency as the Authority may specify by written
notice.

 (2) Any person that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
29        Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

          PART 4

          AUDIT OF LICENSED CREDIT BUREAUS

Auditing

 23.—(1) Despite the provisions of the Companies Act 1967, a
licensed credit bureau —

    (a) must, on an annual basis, appoint, and obtain the approval
         of the Authority for the appointment of, an auditor; and

    (b) if for any reason its auditor ceases to be its auditor, appoint
         another auditor with the approval of the Authority as soon
         as practicable after such cessation.

 (2) The Authority must not approve an auditor for a licensed credit
bureau unless the auditor is able to comply with such conditions in
relation to the discharge of the auditor’s duties as the Authority may
determine.

(3) The Authority may appoint an auditor —

    (a) if the licensed credit bureau fails to appoint an auditor; or

    (b) if the Authority considers it desirable that another auditor
         should act with the auditor appointed under subsection (1),

and may at any time fix the remuneration to be paid by the licensed
credit bureau to the auditor the Authority appoints.

 (4) The duties of an auditor appointed under subsection (1) or (3)
are to —

    (a) carry out, for the year in respect of which the auditor is
         appointed, an audit of the licensed credit bureau’s
         accounts; and

    (b) make a report on the licensed credit bureau’s financial
         statements or consolidated financial statements in
         accordance with section 207 of the Companies Act 1967.

 (5) The Authority may, by written notice to an auditor, impose all or
any of the following duties on the auditor in addition to those
provided under subsection (4), and the auditor must carry out the
duties so imposed:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   30

(a) a duty to submit such additional information in relation to
     the audit as the Authority considers necessary;

(b) a duty to enlarge or extend the scope of the audit of the
     licensed credit bureau’s business and affairs;

          (c) a duty to carry out any other examination, or establish any
              procedure, in relation to the audit in any particular case;

(d) a duty to submit a report on any of the matters mentioned in
     paragraphs (b) and (c).

 (6) The licensed credit bureau must remunerate the auditor in
respect of —

(a) such remuneration the Authority has fixed under
     subsection (3); and

(b) the discharge of all or any of the additional duties of the
     auditor imposed under subsection (5).

 (7) Despite any other provision of this Act or the provisions of the
Companies Act 1967, the Authority may at any time direct the
licensed credit bureau to —

(a) remove the auditor of the licensed credit bureau; and

(b) appoint another auditor,

if the Authority is not satisfied with the performance of any duty by
the auditor.

 (8) The auditor’s report made under subsection (4)(b) must be
attached to the licensed credit bureau’s financial statements or
consolidated financial statements, and a copy of the report, together
with any report submitted under subsection (5), must be submitted in
writing to the Authority.

 (9) If an auditor, in the course of performing the auditor’s duties, is
satisfied that —

(a) there has been a serious breach or non‑observance of the
     provisions of this Act;

(b) a criminal offence involving fraud or dishonesty has been
     committed;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
31  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    (c) losses have been incurred that reduce the capital of the
        licensed credit bureau by 50% or more;

    (d) serious irregularities have occurred, including
         irregularities that compromise the confidentiality,
         security or integrity of any data collected, used or
         disclosed by the licensed credit bureau; or

    (e) the auditor is unable to confirm that the claims of creditors
        of the licensed credit bureau are still covered by the assets
        of the licensed credit bureau,

the auditor must immediately report the matter to the Authority.

 (10) Where an auditor or employee of the auditor discloses in good
faith to the Authority —

    (a) the auditor’s or employee’s knowledge or suspicion of any
         of the matters mentioned in subsection (9); or

    (b) any information or other matter on which that knowledge
         or suspicion is based,

the disclosure is not a breach of any restriction upon the disclosure
imposed by any law, contract or rules of professional conduct, and the
auditor or employee is not liable for any loss arising out of the
disclosure or any act or omission in consequence of the disclosure.

 (11) Any licensed credit bureau that contravenes subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (12) Any auditor that contravenes subsection (5) or (9) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (13) In this section, “consolidated financial statements” and
“financial statements” have the meanings given by section 209A of
the Companies Act 1967.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   32

Powers of auditor appointed by Authority

 24.—(1) An auditor appointed by the Authority under section 23(3)
may, for the purpose of carrying out an examination or audit —

(a) examine, on oath or affirmation, any officer or employee of
     the licensed credit bureau, or any other auditor of the
     licensed credit bureau;

(b) require any officer or employee of the licensed credit
     bureau, or any other auditor of the licensed credit bureau,
     to produce any books held by or on behalf of the licensed
     credit bureau relating to its business;

          (c) make copies of or take extracts from, or retain possession
              of, any books mentioned in paragraph (b) for such period
              as may be necessary to enable them to be inspected;

(d) employ such persons as the auditor considers necessary to
     assist the auditor in carrying out the examination or audit;
     and

          (e) authorise in writing any person employed by the auditor to
              do, in relation to the examination or audit, any act or thing
              that the auditor could do as an auditor under this
              subsection, other than the examination of a person on
              oath or affirmation.

(2) Any individual who, without reasonable excuse —

(a) refuses or fails to answer any question put to him or her; or

(b) fails to comply with any request made to him or her,

by an auditor appointed under section 23(3) or a person authorised
under subsection (1)(e) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $12,500 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Restriction on auditor’s and employee’s right to communicate
certain matters

 25.—(1) Except as may be necessary for the carrying into effect of
the provisions of this Act or so far as may be required for the purposes
of any legal proceedings, whether civil or criminal —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
33  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    (a) an auditor appointed under section 23(1) or (3); or

    (b) any employee of such auditor,

must not disclose any information that comes to the auditor’s or
employee’s knowledge in the course of performing the auditor’s or
employee’s duties, to any person other than the Authority, or in the
case of an employee of such auditor, the auditor.

 (2) Any person that contravenes this section shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) in the case of the auditor, to a fine not exceeding $25,000;
         or

    (b) in the case of the employee, to a fine not exceeding
         $12,500.

Offence to destroy, conceal, alter, etc., records

 26.—(1) Any individual who, with intent to prevent, delay or
obstruct the carrying out of any examination or audit under section 23
or 24 —

       (a) destroys, conceals or alters any book relating to the
            business of a licensed credit bureau; or

       (b) sends, or conspires with any other person to send, out of
            Singapore, any book or asset of any description belonging
            to, in the possession of or under the control of the licensed
            credit bureau,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (2) If, in any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is
proved that the individual charged with the offence —

       (a) destroyed, concealed or altered any book mentioned in
            subsection (1)(a); or

       (b) sent, or conspired to send, out of Singapore, any book or
            asset mentioned in subsection (1)(b),

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   34

the onus of proving that, in so doing, the individual did not act with
intent to prevent, delay or obstruct the carrying out of an examination
or audit under section 23 or 24 lies on him or her.

                                    PART 5

               APPROVAL OF APPROVED MEMBERS

Rights of approved member

 27. Subject to this Act, only an approved member of a licensed
credit bureau may receive from the licensed credit bureau customer
information of any member of the licensed credit bureau (including a
credit report about a member’s customer).

Holding out as approved member

 28.—(1) A person that is not an approved member of a licensed
credit bureau must not hold itself out as such an approved member.

 (2) Any person that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Deemed approval and actual approval

 29.—(1) A member of a licensed credit bureau that comes within
any class of persons specified in the First Schedule is deemed to be an
approved member of the licensed credit bureau, until that approval is
cancelled or revoked under this Part.

 (2) The deemed approval of a member of a licensed credit bureau
under subsection (1) is subject to such conditions as the Authority
may specify by written notice.

 (3) A licensed credit bureau may apply to the Authority for any of
its members or a class of its members (including any member in
subsection (1) the deemed approval of which has been cancelled or
revoked under this Part) to be approved as an approved member or
approved members (as the case may be) of the licensed credit bureau.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
35  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

 (4) An application made under subsection (3) must be made in such
form and manner as the Authority may specify by written notice.

 (5) The Authority may require the licensed credit bureau, or the
member to which the application relates, to provide the Authority
with such information or documents as the Authority considers
necessary to consider the application.

 (6) Upon receiving an application under subsection (3), the
Authority must consider the application and may —

    (a) approve, with or without conditions, the member as an
         approved member or the class of members as approved
         members of the licensed credit bureau; or

    (b) refuse the application.

 (7) The Authority may at any time add to, vary or revoke any of the
conditions of the approval or deemed approval of an approved
member or class of members.

 (8) A licensed credit bureau must, within 14 days after the date it
becomes a licensed credit bureau, publish a list of its approved
members (including those that are deemed approved members under
subsection (1)) on its website.

 (9) A licensed credit bureau must publish an updated list of its
approved members on its website within 14 days after —

    (a) the date the First Schedule is amended where the
         amendment results in any of its members becoming an
         approved member;

    (b) the date any of its members becomes one of the persons
         specified in the First Schedule; or

    (c) the date any of its members or class of its members is
        approved as an approved member or approved members
        under subsection (6)(a).

 (10) Any approved member of a licensed credit bureau that fails to
comply with any condition imposed by the Authority under
subsection (2), (6)(a) or (7) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $10,000

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   36

for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (11) Any licensed credit bureau that contravenes subsection (8)
shall be guilty of an offence.

Cancellation of approval or deemed approval

 30.—(1) An approved member of a licensed credit bureau may
apply to the Authority to cancel its approval or deemed approval if the
approved member intends to cease any of the following activities:

       (a) providing to the licensed credit bureau any customer
            information of that or any other approved member of the
            licensed credit bureau;

       (b) requesting from the licensed credit bureau any customer
            information (including a credit report about the member’s
            customer) of that or any other approved member of the
            licensed credit bureau;

       (c) using any customer information (including any such
            information in a credit report) of that or any other
            approved member of the licensed credit bureau that the
            approved member has received from the licensed credit
            bureau.

 (2) The Authority may upon considering the application, cancel the
approval or deemed approval of an approved member of a licensed
credit bureau if the Authority is satisfied that the approved member
has ceased any of the activities mentioned in subsection (1).

 (3) An approved member of a licensed credit bureau whose
approval or deemed approval is cancelled ceases to be an approved
member of the licensed credit bureau from the date on which the
cancellation takes effect.

 (4) Where the approval or deemed approval of an approved
member of a licensed credit bureau is cancelled, the former
approved member —

       (a) must not use or disclose any customer information of that
            or any other approved member of the licensed credit
            bureau that the former approved member received from the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
37  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    licensed credit bureau, except as permitted by any other
    written law; and

    (b) must immediately inform the licensed credit bureau by
         written notice of the cancellation.

 (5) The Authority must publish a notice in the Gazette whenever it
cancels the approval or deemed approval of an approved member of a
licensed credit bureau.

 (6) Where the approval or deemed approval of an approved
member of a licensed credit bureau is cancelled under
subsection (2), the licensed credit bureau must, within 14 days
after receiving the notice of the cancellation under subsection (4)(b),
remove the former approved member from the list of its approved
members on its website.

 (7) Despite the cancellation of the approval or deemed approval of
an approved member of a licensed credit bureau, and unless the
Authority otherwise directs, sections 37, 49 and 50 continue to apply
in relation to the former approved member in respect of matters that
the former approved member received or that occurred before the
cancellation as if the approval or deemed approval had not been
cancelled.

 (8) Any former approved member of a licensed credit bureau that
contravenes subsection (4) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in the case
of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $25,000 for
every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (9) Any licensed credit bureau that contravenes subsection (6) shall
be guilty of an offence.

 (10) This section applies to corrected data received by a licensed
credit bureau’s approved member or former approved member under
section 18(3)(b)(ii) as it applies to customer information of any
approved member of the licensed credit bureau received by the
approved member or former approved member.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   38

Revocation of approval or deemed approval

 31.—(1) The Authority may revoke the approval or deemed
approval of an approved member of a licensed credit bureau if —

(a) it appears to the Authority that the approved member is
     contravening or has contravened —

          (i) any provision of this Act; or

          (ii) any written notice issued by the Authority under this
               Act;

(b) the approved member has provided under this Act any
     information or document to the Authority that is false or
     misleading;

          (c) it appears to the Authority that the approved member, or
              any of its officers or employees, has not performed its
              duties, or his or her duties, under this Act honestly or fairly;

(d) the approved member fails to carry on or ceases any of the
     activities specified in section 30(1); or

          (e) it appears to the Authority that it would be contrary to the
              public interest for the approved member to continue being
              such an approved member.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the Authority must not revoke the
approval or deemed approval of an approved member of a licensed
credit bureau under subsection (1) without giving the approved
member an opportunity to be heard.

 (3) The Authority may revoke the approval or deemed approval of
an approved member of a licensed credit bureau without giving the
approved member an opportunity to be heard on any of the following
grounds:

(a) the approved member is in the course of being wound up or
     otherwise dissolved, whether in Singapore or elsewhere;

(b) a receiver, a receiver and manager, a judicial manager or an
     equivalent person has been appointed, whether in
     Singapore or elsewhere, for or in respect of any property
     of the approved member;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
39  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    (c) the approved member has been convicted, whether in
        Singapore or elsewhere, of an offence involving fraud or
        dishonesty, or the conviction involved a finding that the
        approved member had acted fraudulently or dishonestly.

 (4) An approved member of a licensed credit bureau whose
approval or deemed approval is revoked ceases to be an approved
member of the licensed credit bureau from the date on which the
revocation takes effect.

 (5) Where the approval or deemed approval of an approved
member of a licensed credit bureau is revoked, the former
approved member —

    (a) must not use or disclose any customer information of that
         or any other approved member of the licensed credit
         bureau that the former approved member received from the
         licensed credit bureau, except as permitted by any other
         written law; and

    (b) must immediately inform the licensed credit bureau by
         written notice of the revocation.

 (6) The Authority must publish a notice in the Gazette whenever it
revokes the approval or deemed approval of an approved member of a
licensed credit bureau.

 (7) Where the approval or deemed approval of an approved
member of a licensed credit bureau is revoked under
subsection (1), the licensed credit bureau must, within 14 days
after receiving the notice of such revocation under subsection (5)(b),
remove the approved member from the list of its approved members
on its website.

 (8) Despite the revocation of the approval or deemed approval of an
approved member of a licensed credit bureau, and unless the
Authority otherwise directs, sections 37, 49 and 50 continue to
apply in relation to the former approved member in respect of matters
that the former approved member received or that occurred before the
revocation as if the approval or deemed approval had not been
revoked.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   40

 (9) Any former approved member of a licensed credit bureau that
contravenes subsection (5) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in the case
of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $25,000 for
every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (10) Any licensed credit bureau that contravenes subsection (7)
shall be guilty of an offence.

 (11) This section applies to corrected data received by a licensed
credit bureau’s approved member or former approved member under
section 18(3)(b)(ii) as it applies to customer information of any
approved member of the licensed credit bureau received by the
approved member or former approved member.

Right of appeal in respect of refusal of approval or revocation
of approved members

 32.—(1) A licensed credit bureau that is aggrieved —

       (a) by the refusal of the Authority to approve any of the
            licensed credit bureau’s members as an approved member
            or a class of its members as approved members of the
            licensed credit bureau; or

       (b) by the revocation by the Authority of its approval or
            deemed approval of an approved member of the licensed
            credit bureau,

may, within 30 days after the refusal or the date on which the
revocation takes effect, appeal in writing to the Minister.

 (2) A member of a licensed credit bureau that is aggrieved by the
refusal of the Authority to approve it as an approved member of the
licensed credit bureau may, within 30 days after the refusal, appeal in
writing to the Minister.

 (3) A former approved member of a licensed credit bureau that is
aggrieved by the revocation by the Authority of its approval or
deemed approval as an approved member of the licensed credit
bureau may, within 30 days after the revocation, appeal in writing to
the Minister.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
41  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    PART 6

    DUTIES OF APPROVED MEMBERS OF
         LICENSED CREDIT BUREAUS

Duty to maintain confidentiality of customer information

 33.—(1) Except for a purpose mentioned in subsection (2), an
approved member of a licensed credit bureau and any of the
member’s officers must not —

    (a) request from the licensed credit bureau, any customer
         information (including a credit report of the member’s
         customer) of that or any other approved member of the
         licensed credit bureau; or

    (b) use any customer information (including any such
         information in a credit report) of that or any other
         approved member of the licensed credit bureau received
         from the licensed credit bureau.

(2) The purposes in subsection (1) are —

    (a) where the customer information is strictly necessary to
         assess the creditworthiness of a customer of the approved
         member; or

    (b) any other purpose that the Authority may permit, by
         written notice.

 (3) An approved member of a licensed credit bureau, and any of the
member’s officers, must not disclose to the licensed credit bureau,
any customer information of that or any other approved member of
the licensed credit bureau except —

    (a) where the customer information is strictly necessary to
         create a credit report;

    (b) to enable the licensed credit bureau to make a disclosure
         under section 13(2)(b);

    (c) to enable the licensed credit bureau to make a disclosure
        under section 16; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.         Credit Bureau Act 2016                            42

(d) for any other purpose that the Authority may permit by
     written notice and in accordance with such conditions as
     may be specified in the notice.

 (4) An approved member of a licensed credit bureau, and any of the
member’s officers, must not disclose to any other person customer
information of any other approved member of the licensed credit
bureau that the firstmentioned approved member has received from
the licensed credit bureau except —

(a) to the customer to which the information relates;

(b) where the disclosure is by any of the approved member’s
     officers, such disclosure is to the approved member;

          (c) to that licensed credit bureau; or

(d) to any other person if the disclosure is permitted by the
     Authority by written notice and in accordance with such
     conditions as may be specified in the notice.

 (5) Despite subsections (3) and (4)(c), an approved member of a
licensed credit bureau, and the approved member’s officers, must not
disclose to the licensed credit bureau, any customer information of
that or any other approved member of the licensed credit bureau, if
the licensed credit bureau’s licence —

(a) has lapsed;

(b) is revoked; or

          (c) is suspended.

 (6) The Authority may at any time add to, vary or revoke any
condition imposed under this section.

 (7) Despite subsections (3) and (4)(c), an approved member of a
licensed credit bureau and the approved member’s officers must not
disclose any of its deposit information to the licensed credit bureau.

 (8) To avoid doubt, subsections (3), (4), (5) and (7) do not affect the
rights of disclosure that the approved member or any of its officers
has under any other written law, including the Banking Act 1970.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
43  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

 (9) Any person that contravenes subsection (1), (3), (4), (5), (7) or
any condition imposed under subsection (6) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
         $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
         3 years or to both; or

    (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000.

(10) In this section, unless the context otherwise requires —

    (a) where customer information of an approved member of a
         licensed credit bureau may be disclosed under
         subsection (3) or (4) to any person that is a body
         corporate, the customer information may be disclosed to
         such officers of the body corporate as may be necessary for
         the purpose for which the disclosure is authorised under
         that subsection; and

    (b) the obligation of any officer of the approved member not to
         disclose any customer information of any approved
         member of the licensed credit bureau mentioned in
         subsection (3), (4), (5) and (7) continues after the
         termination or cessation of his or her appointment,
         employment, engagement or other capacity or office in
         which he or she has been provided the customer
         information.

 (11) In this section, “officer” has the meaning given by section 2(1)
of the Banking Act 1970.

 (12) This section applies to corrected data received by the approved
member from the licensed credit bureau under section 18(3)(b)(ii) as
it applies to customer information of any approved member of the
licensed credit bureau received by the approved member from the
licensed credit bureau.

Duty to maintain security and integrity of data

 34.—(1) An approved member of a licensed credit bureau must —

       (a) ensure the integrity of any data it provides to the licensed
            credit bureau;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   44

(b) protect any data received from the licensed credit bureau
     by making reasonable security arrangements to prevent
     unauthorised access, collection, use, disclosure, copying,
     modification, disposal or similar risks; and

          (c) dispose of any data received from the licensed credit
              bureau if —

          (i) the purpose for which that data was provided is no
              longer being served by retention of the data; and

          (ii) retention is no longer necessary for the approved
               member’s legal or business purposes.

 (2) Any person that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Duty to correct data

 35.—(1) A data subject may request an approved member of a
licensed credit bureau to correct an error or omission in any data of
the data subject that —

       (a) has been processed by the licensed credit bureau; and

       (b) is in the possession or under the control of the approved
            member.

 (2) Upon receiving a request under subsection (1), the approved
member must —

       (a) as soon as practicable after receiving the request, inform
            the licensed credit bureau of the request;

       (b) within such period as the Authority may specify by written
            notice to the approved member or the class of approved
            members to which that member belongs, conduct and
            complete an investigation to ascertain the integrity of the
            data; and

       (c) unless the approved member is satisfied on reasonable
            grounds that a correction should not be made, within such

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
45  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    period as the Authority may specify by written notice to
    it —

    (i) correct the data in its possession or under its control;
        and

    (ii) inform the licensed credit bureau in writing of its
         assessment that a correction to the data should be
         made.

 (3) Where a licensed credit bureau has been informed by its
approved member under subsection (2)(c)(ii) that a correction to the
data should be made, the licensed credit bureau must, within such
period as the Authority may specify by written notice to it —

    (a) correct the data that is in the possession or under the
         control of the licensed credit bureau; and

    (b) send the corrected data to every approved member of the
         licensed credit bureau to which the licensed credit bureau
         disclosed the data within a year before the date the
         correction was made.

 (4) Any person that contravenes subsection (2) or (3) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Duty to submit data to licensed credit bureau

 36.—(1) The Authority may, by written notice, require an approved
member of a licensed credit bureau to provide to the licensed credit
bureau, such data relating to the licensed credit bureau’s credit
reporting business within such period and in such manner as the
Authority may specify in the notice.

 (2) Any person that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   46

Duty to provide information to Authority

 37.—(1) Subject to subsection (4), the Authority may, by written
notice, require an approved member of a licensed credit bureau, or
any person acting on behalf of the approved member, to provide to the
Authority, information relating to —

(a) the approved member’s membership of the licensed credit
     bureau; and

(b) the approved member’s activities as an approved member
     of the licensed credit bureau,

within such period as the Authority may specify in the notice.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may in the notice
require the approved member to provide, whether in the form of a
return to be provided on a periodic basis or otherwise —

(a) information relating to its involvement as an approved
     member of the licensed credit bureau;

(b) information relating to the confidentiality, security or
     integrity of any data provided to the licensed credit bureau;
     and

          (c) any other information that the Authority may require for
              the purposes of this Act.

(3) Subject to subsection (4) —

(a) a requirement imposed by the Authority under this section
     has effect despite any obligation as to secrecy or other
     restrictions upon the disclosure of information imposed by
     any rule of law or contract; and

(b) a person that complies with a requirement imposed by the
     Authority under this section is not to be treated as being in
     breach of any restriction on the disclosure of the
     information imposed by any rule of law or contract.

 (4) Nothing in this section requires a person to disclose any
information subject to legal privilege.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
47  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

 (5) Any person that fails to comply with a notice issued under
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

    (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $50,000
         or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
         both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
         fine not exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of a day
         during which the offence continues after conviction; or

    (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in
         the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
         exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during
         which the offence continues after conviction.

Duty to provide information in credit facility document

 38.—(1) The Authority may, by written notice to an approved
member or a class of approved members of a licensed credit bureau,
require the approved member or the member within that class to
include any information specified by the Authority in any credit
facility document that the approved member provides to its customer.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the notice in subsection (1)
may require the approved member to specify in the credit facility
document that the customer is entitled, if the customer is the data
subject of a credit report by the licensed credit bureau, to —

       (a) request a copy of the credit report from the licensed credit
            bureau; and

       (b) receive the copy of the credit report from the licensed
            credit bureau free of charge to the customer if the customer
            is an individual, but subject to the requirements of
            section 17(3).

 (3) Any person that fails to comply with a notice given under
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $25,000.

 (4) In this section, “credit facility document” means any application
form, approval letter, rejection letter or any other document in
relation to an application for a credit facility.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.           Credit Bureau Act 2016                          48

                   PART 7

          CONTROL OF SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS,
          CONTROLLERS AND OFFICERS OF LICENSED

                              CREDIT BUREAUS

Application and interpretation of sections 40 to 45

39.—(1) This section and sections 40 to 45 apply to —

(a) all individuals whether resident in Singapore or not and
     whether citizens of Singapore or not; and

(b) all entities.

(2) In sections 40 to 45, unless the context otherwise requires —

“12% controller”, in relation to a licensed credit bureau, means a
   person, not being a 20% controller, that alone or together with
   the person’s associates —

          (a) has an interest in 12% or more of the shares in the
               licensed credit bureau; or

          (b) is in a position to control 12% or more of the votes in
               the licensed credit bureau;

“20% controller”, in relation to a licensed credit bureau, means a
   person that, alone or together with the person’s associates —

          (a) has an interest in 20% or more of the shares in the
               licensed credit bureau; or

          (b) is in a position to control 20% or more of the votes in
               the licensed credit bureau;

“arrangement” includes any formal or informal scheme,
   arrangement or understanding, and any trust whether
   express or implied;

“indirect controller”, in relation to a licensed credit bureau,
   means any person, whether acting alone or together with any
   other person, and whether with or without holding shares or
   controlling voting power in a licensed credit bureau —

          (a) in accordance with whose directions, instructions or
               wishes the directors of the licensed credit bureau are

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
49  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    accustomed or under an obligation, whether formal
    or informal, to act; or

    (b) that is in a position to determine the policy of the
         licensed credit bureau,

    but excludes any person —

    (c) who is a director or other officer of the licensed credit
        bureau whose appointment has been approved by the
        Authority; or

    (d) in accordance with whose directions, instructions or
         wishes the directors of the licensed credit bureau are
         accustomed to act by reason only that they act on
         advice given by the person in the person’s
         professional capacity;

    “substantial shareholder” has the meaning given by section 81 of
       the Companies Act 1967;

    “voting share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
       Companies Act 1967.

(3) In this section and sections 40 to 45 —

    (a) a person has an interest in a share if —

    (i) the person has or is treated to have an interest in that
        share under section 7(1A), (1B), (2), (6), (7) to (10)
        of the Companies Act 1967; or

    (ii) the person otherwise has a legal or equitable interest
         in that share, except an interest disregarded under
         section 7(9) of the Companies Act 1967;

    (b) a reference to the control of a percentage of the votes in a
         licensed credit bureau is a reference to the control, whether
         direct or indirect, of that percentage of the total number of
         votes that might be cast in a general meeting of the licensed
         credit bureau; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                       50

          (c) a person (A) is an associate of another person (B) if —

          (i) A is the spouse, a parent, remoter lineal ancestor or
              step‑parent, a son, daughter, remoter issue, stepson
              or stepdaughter or a brother or sister of B;

          (ii) A is a body corporate that is, or a majority of the
               directors of which are, accustomed or under an
               obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
               accordance with the directions, instructions or
               wishes of B;

          (iii) A is a person that is accustomed or under an
                obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
                accordance with the directions, instructions or
                wishes of B;

          (iv) A is a subsidiary of B;

          (v) A is a body corporate in which B, whether alone or
               together with other associates of B as described in
               sub‑paragraphs (ii), (iii) and (iv), is in a position to
               control 20% or more of the votes in A; or

          (vi) A is a person with whom B has an agreement or
               arrangement, whether oral or in writing and whether
               express or implied, to act together with respect to the
               acquisition, holding or disposal of shares or other
               interests in, or with respect to the exercise of their
               votes in relation to, the licensed credit bureau.

Control of shareholding in licensed credit bureau
 40.—(1) A person must not become —
       (a) a substantial shareholder;
       (b) a 12% controller;
       (c) a 20% controller; or
       (d) an indirect controller,

of a licensed credit bureau without first applying for and obtaining the
approval of the Authority.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
51  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

 (2) Subject to subsection (8), a person that, immediately before
31 May 2021, is —

    (a) a substantial shareholder;

    (b) a 12% controller;

    (c) a 20% controller; or

    (d) an indirect controller,

of a licensed credit bureau must not continue to be such a shareholder
or controller unless the person has, within 6 months after that date or
such longer period as the Authority may allow, applied to the
Authority for approval to continue to be such a shareholder or
controller.

 (3) A person must not enter into any agreement or arrangement,
whether oral or in writing and whether express or implied, to act
together with any other person with respect to the acquisition, holding
or disposal of, or the exercise of rights in relation to, their interests in
voting shares of an aggregate of 5% or more of the total votes
attached to all voting shares in a licensed credit bureau, without first
applying for and obtaining the approval of the Authority.

 (4) Subject to subsection (8), a person that, at any time before
31 May 2021, has entered into any agreement or arrangement
mentioned in subsection (3) must not continue to be a party to such an
agreement or arrangement unless the person has, within 6 months
after that date or any longer period that the Authority may allow,
applied to the Authority for approval to continue to be a party to such
an agreement or arrangement.

 (5) The Authority may approve an application made by any person
under subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4) if the Authority is satisfied that —

    (a) having regard to the likely influence of the person, the
         licensed credit bureau will or will continue to conduct its
         business prudently and comply with the provisions of this
         Act;

    (b) the person is, in accordance with the Guidelines on Fit and
         Proper Criteria, a fit and proper person to be a substantial

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   52

          shareholder, a 12% controller, a 20% controller or an
          indirect controller of the licensed credit bureau; and

          (c) it is in the public interest to do so.

 (6) Any approval under subsection (5) may be granted to any
person subject to such conditions as the Authority may impose,
including but not limited to any condition —

(a) restricting the person’s disposal or further acquisition of
     shares or voting power in the licensed credit bureau; or

(b) restricting the person’s exercise of voting power in the
     licensed credit bureau,

and the Authority may at any time add to, vary or revoke any
condition imposed under this subsection.

 (7) Any condition imposed under subsection (6) has effect despite
any provision of the Companies Act 1967 or anything contained in
the licensed credit bureau’s constitution.

 (8) Where the Authority refuses an application made by any person
under subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4), the person must, within such time
as the Authority may specify, take such steps (as soon as practicable
after the refusal) that are necessary —

(a) in the case of subsection (1) or (2), to cease to be —

          (i) a substantial shareholder;

          (ii) a 12% controller;

          (iii) a 20% controller; or

          (iv) an indirect controller,

(a) of the licensed credit bureau, as the case may be; or

(b) in the case of subsection (3) or (4), to cease to be a party to
     the agreement or arrangement.

Objection to existing control of licensed credit bureau

 41.—(1) The Authority may serve a written notice of objection on
any person mentioned in section 40(1), (2), (3) or (4) if the Authority
is satisfied that —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
53  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    (a) any condition of approval imposed on the person under
         section 40(6) has not been complied with;

    (b) it is no longer in the public interest to allow the person to
         continue to be —

    (i) a party to the agreement or arrangement described in
        section 40(3) or (4);

    (ii) a substantial shareholder of the licensed credit
         bureau;

    (iii) a 12% controller of the licensed credit bureau;

    (iv) a 20% controller of the licensed credit bureau; or

    (v) an indirect controller of the licensed credit bureau,

    (b) as the case may be;

    (c) the person has provided any false or misleading
        information or document in connection with an
        application under section 40(1), (2), (3) or (4);

    (d) the person is no longer a fit and proper person in
         accordance with the Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria;

    (e) having regard to the likely influence of the person, the
        licensed credit bureau is no longer likely to conduct its
        business prudently or to comply with the provisions of this
        Act; or

    (f) it would not have been satisfied as to any of the matters
        specified in section 40(5) had it been aware, at that time, of
        circumstances relevant to the person’s application under
        section 40(1), (2), (3) or (4).

 (2) Before serving a written notice of objection under
subsection (1), the Authority must, unless the Authority decides
that it is not practicable or desirable to do so, give the person —

    (a) a written notice of the Authority’s intention to serve the
         written notice of objection; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   54

(b) specify a date by which the person may make written
     representations with regard to the proposed written notice
     of objection.

 (3) The Authority must consider any written representations it
receives before the date mentioned in subsection (2)(b) for the
purpose of determining whether to issue a written notice of objection.

 (4) The Authority must, in any written notice of objection, specify a
reasonable period within which the person that has been served the
written notice of objection must —

(a) take such steps as are necessary to ensure that the person
     ceases to be a party to the agreement or arrangement
     described in section 40(3) or (4), as the case may be;

(b) cease to be —

          (i) a substantial shareholder;

          (ii) a 12% controller;

          (iii) a 20% controller; or

          (iv) an indirect controller,

(b) of the licensed credit bureau, as the case may be; or

          (c) comply with such direction as the Authority may make
              under section 42,

and the person must comply with that notice.

Power to make directions

 42.—(1) If the Authority is satisfied that a person has contravened
section 40(1), (2), (3), (4) or (8) or has failed to comply with any
condition imposed under section 40(6), or if the Authority has served
a written notice of objection under section 41, the Authority may, by
written notice —

       (a) direct the transfer or disposal of all or any of the shares in
            the licensed credit bureau held by the person or any of the
            person’s associates (called in this section the specified
            shares) within such time or subject to such conditions as
            the Authority considers appropriate;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
55  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    (b) restrict the transfer or disposal of the specified shares; or

    (c) make any other direction that the Authority considers
        appropriate.

 (2) In the case of any direction made under subsection (1)(a) or
restriction made under subsection (1)(b), until a transfer or disposal is
effected in accordance with the direction or until the restriction on the
transfer or disposal is removed, as the case may be —

    (a) no voting rights may be exercised in respect of the
         specified shares unless the Authority expressly permits
         such rights to be exercised;

    (b) no shares of the licensed credit bureau may be issued or
         offered (whether by way of rights, bonus or otherwise) in
         respect of the specified shares unless the Authority
         expressly permits such issue or offer; and

    (c) except in a liquidation of the licensed credit bureau, no
        payment may be made by the licensed credit bureau of any
        amount (whether by way of dividends or otherwise) in
        respect of the specified shares unless the Authority
        expressly authorises such payment.

 (3) Subsection (2) has effect despite any provision of the
Companies Act 1967 or anything contained in the licensed credit
bureau’s constitution.

Power of Authority to obtain information

 43.—(1) The Authority may, by written notice, direct a licensed
credit bureau to obtain from any of its shareholders, and to provide to
the Authority, any information relating to the shareholder that the
Authority may require for the purpose of —

       (a) ascertaining or investigating into the control of
            shareholding or voting power in the licensed credit
            bureau; or

       (b) exercising any power or function under section 40, 41, 42,
            44 or 45.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   56

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the notice in subsection (1)
may require the licensed credit bureau to obtain and provide the
following information:

(a) whether the shareholder has an interest in any share in the
     licensed credit bureau as beneficial owner or as trustee;

(b) if the shareholder holds the interest in the share as trustee,
     to indicate as far as that shareholder is able to —

          (i) the person for whom that shareholder holds the
              interest (either by name or by other particulars
              sufficient to enable that person to be identified); and

          (ii) the nature of that person’s interest.

 (3) The Authority may, by written notice, require any shareholder
(X) of a licensed credit bureau, or any person (Y) that appears from
information provided to the Authority under subsection (1) or this
subsection to have an interest in any share in the licensed credit
bureau, to provide to the Authority any information relating to X or Y
(as the case may be) that the Authority may require for the purpose
of —

(a) ascertaining or investigating into the control of
     shareholding or voting power in the licensed credit
     bureau; or

(b) exercising any power or function under section 40, 41, 42,
     44 or 45.

 (4) Without limiting subsection (3), the notice in subsection (3)
may require X or Y to provide the following information:

(a) whether X or Y holds that interest as beneficial owner or as
     trustee;

(b) if X or Y holds the interest as trustee, to indicate as far as X
     or Y can —

          (i) the person (Z) for whom X or Y holds the interest
              (either by name or by other particulars sufficient to
              enable that person to be identified); and

          (ii) the nature of Z’s interest;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
57  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    (c) whether any share or any voting right attached to the share
        is the subject of an agreement or arrangement described in
        section 39(3)(c)(vi) or 40(3) or (4), and if so, to give
        particulars of the agreement or arrangement and the parties
        to it.

Power to exempt

 44.—(1) The Authority may, by order in the Gazette, exempt —

       (a) any person or class of persons; or

       (b) any class or description of shares or interests in shares,

from section 40, subject to such conditions as may be specified in the
order.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the conditions may include —

       (a) restricting the person’s or class of persons’ disposal or
            further acquisition of shares or voting power in the licensed
            credit bureau; or

       (b) restricting the person’s or class of persons’ exercise of
            voting power in the licensed credit bureau,

and the Authority may at any time add to, vary or revoke any
condition imposed under this section.

Offences, penalties and defences

 45.—(1) Any person that contravenes section 40(1)(a) or (b), (2)(a)
or (b), (3), (4), (8)(a)(i) or (ii), or (b) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence (if
            applicable), to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for
            every day or part of a day during which the offence
            continues after conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence (if applicable), to a further
            fine not exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day
            during which the offence continues after conviction.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   58

(2) Any person that —

(a) contravenes section 40(1)(c) or (d), (2)(c) or (d), (8)(a)(iii)
     or (iv) or 42(2);

(b) fails to comply with —

          (i) any notice given under section 41(4), 42(1) or 43; or

          (ii) any condition imposed under section 40(6); or

          (c) in purported compliance with a notice under section 43,
              knowingly or recklessly provides any information or
              document that is false or misleading in a material
              particular,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (3) Any person convicted of an offence under subsection (2) shall
be liable on conviction —

(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
     $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
     3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence
     (if applicable), to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for
     every day or part of a day during which the offence
     continues after conviction; or

(b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
     the case of a continuing offence (if applicable), to a further
     fine not exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day
     during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (4) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 40(1), (2), (3), (4) or (8), it is a defence for
the person to prove that —

(a) the person was not aware that the person had contravened
     section 40(1), (2), (3), (4) or (8), as the case may be; and

(b) within 14 days after becoming aware of the contravention,
     the person —

          (i) notified the Authority of the contravention; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
59  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    (ii) within such time as may be determined by the
         Authority, took such action in relation to the person’s
         shareholding or control of the voting power in the
         licensed credit bureau as the Authority may direct.

 (5) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 40(1), it is also a defence for the person to
prove that, even though the person was aware of the contravention —

    (a) the contravention occurred as a result of an increase in the
         shareholding as described in section 39(3)(a) of, or in the
         voting power controlled by, any of the person’s associates
         described in section 39(3)(c)(i);

    (b) the person had no agreement or arrangement, whether oral
         or in writing and whether express or implied, with that
         associate with respect to the acquisition, holding or
         disposal of shares or other interests in, or under which
         they act together in exercising their voting power in
         relation to, the licensed credit bureau; and

    (c) within 14 days after the date of the contravention, the
        person —

    (i) notified the Authority of the contravention; and

    (ii) within such time as may be determined by the
         Authority, took such action in relation to the person’s
         shareholding or control of the voting power in the
         licensed credit bureau as the Authority may direct.

 (6) Except as provided in subsections (4) and (5), it is not a defence
for a person charged with an offence in respect of a contravention of
section 40(1), (2), (3), (4) or (8) to prove that the person did not intend
to or did not knowingly contravene that provision.

Approval and removal of chief executive officer and directors
of licensed credit bureau

 46.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), a licensed credit bureau must
not appoint an individual as its chief executive officer or director
unless it has applied for and obtained the approval of the Authority.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   60

 (2) Without affecting any other matter that the Authority may
consider relevant, the Authority may —

(a) in determining whether to grant its approval under
     paragraph (b), have regard to such criteria as may be
     specified by written notice to the licensed credit bureau;
     and

(b) approve or refuse the application.

 (3) Where a licensed credit bureau has obtained the approval of the
Authority to appoint an individual as its chief executive officer or
director under subsection (2)(b), the individual may, without the
approval of the Authority, be re‑appointed as chief executive officer
or director (as the case may be) of the licensed credit bureau
immediately upon the expiry of the individual’s term of appointment.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), the Authority must not refuse an
application for approval of an individual under subsection (1) without
giving the licensed credit bureau an opportunity to be heard.

 (5) The Authority may refuse an application for approval of an
individual under subsection (1) without giving the licensed credit
bureau an opportunity to be heard in any of the following
circumstances:

(a) if the individual has been convicted, whether in Singapore
     or elsewhere, of an offence committed before, on or after
     31 May 2021, being an offence —

          (i) involving fraud or dishonesty;

          (ii) the conviction for which involved a finding that he or
               she had acted fraudulently or dishonestly; or

          (iii) that is specified in the Third Schedule to the
                Registration of Criminals Act 1949;

(b) if the individual is an undischarged bankrupt, whether in
     Singapore or elsewhere;

          (c) if the individual has had an enforcement order against him
              or her in respect of a judgment debt returned unsatisfied in
              whole or in part;

                                                                              [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
61  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    (d) if the individual has, whether in Singapore or elsewhere,
         entered into a compromise or scheme of arrangement with
         his or her creditors, being a compromise or scheme of
         arrangement that is still in operation;

    (e) if the individual has had a prohibition order made against
        him or her that is still in force;

                                                                        [Act 18 of 2022 wef 31/07/2024]

    (f) if the individual has been a director of, or directly
        concerned in the management of, a regulated financial
        institution, whether in Singapore or elsewhere —

    (i) that is being or has been wound up by a court; or

    (ii) the approval, authorisation, designation, recognition,
         registration or licence of which has been withdrawn,
         cancelled or revoked by the Authority or, in the case
         of a regulated financial institution in a foreign
         country or territory, by the regulatory authority in
         that foreign country or territory.

 (6) Where the Authority refuses an application for approval under
subsection (2)(b), the Authority need not give the individual who was
proposed to be appointed an opportunity to be heard.

 (7) Despite the provisions of any other written law, where the
Authority is satisfied that a chief executive officer or director of a
licensed credit bureau is not a fit and proper person to act as such
chief executive officer or director, the Authority may, by written
notice, direct the licensed credit bureau to remove —

    (a) the chief executive officer from employment with the
         licensed credit bureau; or

    (b) the director as a director of the licensed credit bureau,

within such period as the Authority may specify in the notice.

 (8) Without affecting any other matter that the Authority may deem
relevant, in assessing whether to direct a licensed credit bureau to
remove its chief executive officer or director under subsection (7), the
Authority may consider whether the chief executive officer or
director —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   62

(a) has wilfully contravened or wilfully caused the licensed
     credit bureau to contravene any provision of this Act;

(b) has, without reasonable excuse, failed to secure the
     compliance of the licensed credit bureau with this Act,
     the Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970 or any of
     the written laws set out in the Schedule to that Act;

          (c) has failed to discharge any of the duties of his or her office
              or employment; or

(d) needs to be removed in the public interest.

 (9) Before directing a licensed credit bureau to remove its chief
executive officer or director under subsection (7), the Authority must
give the licensed credit bureau and the individual concerned an
opportunity to be heard.

 (10) Without affecting the Authority’s power to impose conditions
under section 7, the Authority may at any time, by written notice to a
licensed credit bureau, impose a condition requiring the licensed
credit bureau to notify the Authority of a change to any specified
attribute (such as residence and nature of appointment) of its chief
executive officer or director, and vary any such condition.

(11) Any licensed credit bureau that, without reasonable excuse —

(a) contravenes subsection (1);

(b) fails to comply with a direction under subsection (7); or

          (c) contravenes any condition imposed under subsection (10),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $100,000.

(12) In this section, unless the context otherwise requires —

“prohibition order” means —

          (a) a prohibition order made under section 68(1) of the
               Financial Advisers Act 2001 as in force immediately
               before the date of commencement of
               section 200(1)(b) and (2) to (7) of the Financial
               Services and Markets Act 2022;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
63  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    (b) a prohibition order made under section 68(1) of the
         Financial Advisers Act 2001 as in force immediately
         before the date of commencement of
         section 200(1)(b) and (2) to (7) of the Financial
         Services and Markets Act 2022, and as continued by
         section 217(2) of the Financial Services and Markets
         Act 2022;

    (c) an order made under section 74(1) of the Insurance
        Act 1966 as in force immediately before the date of
        commencement of section 204(1) to (4) of the
        Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

    (d) an order made under section 74(1) of the Insurance
         Act 1966 as in force immediately before the date of
         commencement of section 204(1) to (4) of the
         Financial Services and Markets Act 2022, and as
         continued by section 218(2) of the Financial Services
         and Markets Act 2022;

    (e) a prohibition order made under section 101A(1) of
        the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force
        immediately before the date of commencement of
        section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and
        (18) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

    (f) a prohibition order made under section 101A(1) of
        the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force
        immediately before the date of commencement of
        section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and
        (18) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022,
        and as continued by section 220(3) of the Financial
        Services and Markets Act 2022; or

            (g) a prohibition order made under section 7(1) of the
                 Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

                                                                           [Act 18 of 2022 wef 31/07/2024]

    “regulated financial institution” means a person that carries on a
       business, the conduct of which is regulated or authorised by
       the Authority or, if it is carried on in Singapore, would be
       regulated or authorised by the Authority;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   64

“regulatory authority”, in relation to a foreign country or
   territory, means an authority of the foreign country or
   territory exercising any function that corresponds to a
   regulatory function of the Authority under this Act, the
   Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970 or any of the
   written laws set out in the Schedule to that Act.

Appeals

 47.—(1) Any person that is aggrieved by a decision of the
Authority under section 40, 41 or 42 may, within 30 days after
receiving the decision of the Authority, appeal in writing to the
Minister.

 (2) A licensed credit bureau that is aggrieved by the decision of the
Authority under section 46(2)(b) may, within 30 days after receiving
the decision of the Authority, appeal in writing to the Minister.

 (3) A licensed credit bureau, or any chief executive officer or
director of the licensed credit bureau, that is aggrieved by a direction
of the Authority under section 46(7) may, within 30 days after
receiving the direction, appeal in writing to the Minister.

                                    PART 8

               INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS

Inspection by Authority

 48.—(1) The Authority may from time to time inspect, under
conditions of secrecy, the books of a licensed credit bureau.

 (2) For the purposes of an inspection under this section —

       (a) a licensed credit bureau in possession of its books must
            produce the books to the Authority and give such
            information or facilities as the Authority may require;

       (b) a licensed credit bureau must procure any person that is in
            possession of its books to produce the books to the
            Authority and give such information or facilities as the
            Authority may require; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
65  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    (c) the Authority may —

    (i) make copies of, or take possession of, any such
        books;

    (ii) use, or permit the use of, any such books for the
         purposes of any proceedings under this Act; and

    (iii) subject to subsection (4), retain possession of any
          such books for so long as is necessary —

    (A) for the purposes of exercising a power
         conferred by this section;

    (B) for a decision to be made on whether or not
         proceedings should be commenced under this
         Act in relation to such books; or

    (C) for such proceedings to be commenced and
         carried on.

 (3) A person is not entitled, as against the Authority, to claim a lien
on any of the books, but such a lien is not otherwise prejudiced.

 (4) While the books are in the possession of the Authority, the
Authority —

    (a) must permit another person to inspect at all reasonable
         times such (if any) of the books as the other person would
         be entitled to inspect if they were not in the possession of
         the Authority; and

    (b) may permit another person to inspect any of the books.

 (5) The Authority may require a person that produced any book to
the Authority to explain, to the best of the person’s knowledge and
belief, any matter about the compilation of the book or to which the
book relates.

 (6) Any person that fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply
with subsection (2)(a) or (b) or a requirement of the Authority under
subsection (5) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

    (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $50,000
         or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   66

          both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
          fine not exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of a day
          during which the offence continues after conviction; or

(b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in
     the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
     exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during
     which the offence continues after conviction.

Investigation by Authority

 49.—(1) The Authority may conduct such investigation as it
considers necessary or expedient for any of the following purposes:

       (a) to determine whether —

               (i) a licensed credit bureau is carrying on its business in
                   a manner likely to be detrimental to the interests of
                   its approved members or customers of its approved
                   members;

              (ii) a licensed credit bureau is conducting its credit
                   reporting business in a proper manner; or

             (iii) an approved member of a licensed credit bureau is
                   conducting its activities as an approved member in a
                   proper manner;

       (b) to investigate an alleged or suspected offence or
            contravention of any provision of this Act;

       (c) to ensure compliance with this Act or any written notice
            issued by the Authority under this Act.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Authority may —

       (a) by written notice, require any person to provide
            information or to produce books relating to any matter
            under investigation, and the person must immediately
            comply with that requirement;

       (b) make copies of, or take possession of, any such books;

       (c) use, or permit the use of, any such books for the purposes
            of any proceedings under this Act; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
67  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    (d) subject to subsection (4), retain possession of any such
         books for so long as is necessary —

    (i) for the purposes of exercising a power conferred by
        this section;

    (ii) for a decision to be made on whether or not
         proceedings should be commenced under this Act
         in relation to such books; or

    (iii) for such proceedings to be commenced and carried
          on.

 (3) A person is not entitled, as against the Authority, to claim a lien
on any of the books, but such a lien is not otherwise prejudiced.

 (4) While the books are in the possession of the Authority, the
Authority —

    (a) must permit another person to inspect at all reasonable
         times such (if any) of the books as the other person would
         be entitled to inspect if they were not in the possession of
         the Authority; and

    (b) may permit another person to inspect any of the books.

 (5) The Authority may require a person that produced any book to
the Authority to explain, to the best of the person’s knowledge and
belief, any matter about the compilation of the book or to which the
book relates.

 (6) The Authority may exercise any of its powers for the purposes
of conducting an investigation under this section despite the
provisions of any prescribed written law (or any requirement
imposed under the prescribed written law) or any rule of law.

 (7) A requirement imposed by the Authority in the exercise of its
powers under this section has effect despite any obligation as to
secrecy or other restrictions upon the disclosure of information
imposed by any prescribed written law (or any requirement imposed
under the prescribed written law), rule of law, contract or rule of
professional conduct.

 (8) Any person that complies with a requirement imposed by the
Authority in the exercise of its powers under this section is not to be

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   68

treated as being in breach of any restriction on the disclosure of the
information imposed by any prescribed written law (or any
requirement imposed under the prescribed written law), rule of law,
contract or rule of professional conduct.

(9) No civil or criminal action lies against any person for —

(a) providing information or producing books to the Authority
     if the person provided the information or produced the
     books in good faith in compliance with a requirement
     imposed by the Authority under this section; or

(b) doing or omitting to do any act, if the person did or omitted
     to do the act in good faith and as a result of complying with
     a requirement imposed by the Authority under this section.

 (10) Any person that fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply
with subsection (2)(a) or a requirement of the Authority under
subsection (5) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $50,000
     or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
     both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
     fine not exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of a day
     during which the offence continues after conviction; or

(b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in
     the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
     exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during
     which the offence continues after conviction.

 (11) In this section, “prescribed written law” means this Act, or any
of the following written laws and any subsidiary legislation made
under this Act or those written laws:

(a) Banking Act 1970;

(b) Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners’ Protection Schemes
     Act 2011;

          (c) Finance Companies Act 1967;

(d) Financial Advisers Act 2001;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
69  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    (da) Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

                                                                           [Act 18 of 2022 wef 28/04/2023]

     (e) Insurance Act 1966;

    (f) Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970;

    (g) Payment Services Act 2019;

    (h) Securities and Futures Act 2001;

    (i) Trust Companies Act 2005;

    (j) any other written law that the Authority may prescribe.

                                                                                                     [2/2019]

Confidentiality of inspection and investigation reports

 50.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), where the Authority has —

       (a) produced a written report —

               (i) upon an inspection under section 48 in respect of a
                   licensed credit bureau; or

              (ii) in respect of any investigation under section 49; and

       (b) provided the report to the licensed credit bureau or the
            person under investigation (called in this section the
            bureau or person, as the case may be),

the bureau or person, or any of the bureau’s or person’s officers or
auditors, must not disclose the report to any other person.

 (2) The report mentioned in subsection (1) may be disclosed —

       (a) by the bureau or person to the bureau’s or person’s officer
            or auditor solely in connection with the performance of the
            duties of the officer or auditor in the bureau or person;

       (b) by any officer or auditor of the bureau or person to any
            other officer or auditor of the bureau or person, solely in
            connection with the performance of their duties in the
            bureau or person; or

       (c) to any other person that the Authority may approve in
            writing.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   70

 (3) In granting written approval for any disclosure under
subsection (2)(c), the Authority may impose such conditions or
restrictions as the Authority thinks fit on the bureau or person, any of
the bureau’s or person’s officers or auditors, or the person to whom
disclosure is approved, and the bureau or person, officer, auditor or
the person to whom disclosure is approved must comply with the
condition or restriction.

 (4) The obligations of an officer or auditor mentioned in
subsections (1) and (3) continue after the termination or cessation
of the person’s employment with or appointment by the bureau or
person.

 (5) Any person that contravenes subsection (1) or (3) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $50,000
     or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
     both; or

(b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

 (6) Any person to whom the report is disclosed and that knows or
has reasonable grounds for believing, at the time of the disclosure,
that the report was disclosed to the person in contravention of
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence unless the person proves
that —

(a) the disclosure was made contrary to the person’s desire;

(b) where the disclosure was made in any written form, the
     person has, as soon as practicable after receiving the report,
     surrendered or taken all reasonable steps to surrender the
     report and all copies of the report to the Authority; and

          (c) where the disclosure was made in an electronic form, the
              person has, as soon as practicable after receiving the report,
              taken all reasonable steps to ensure that all electronic
              copies of the report have been deleted and that the report
              and all copies of the report in other forms have been
              surrendered to the Authority.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
71  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

 (7) Any person convicted of an offence under subsection (6) shall
be liable on conviction —

    (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $50,000
         or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
         both; or

    (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

Self‑incrimination

 51.—(1) A person is not excused from disclosing information to the
Authority pursuant to a requirement made of the person under this
Part on the grounds that the disclosure of the information might tend
to incriminate the person.

 (2) Where a person claims, before making a statement disclosing
information that the person is required to disclose by such
requirement, that the statement might tend to incriminate the
person, that statement is not admissible in evidence against the
person in criminal proceedings other than proceedings for an offence
under section 64(1) or (2).

Saving for advocates and solicitors

 52.—(1) Nothing in this Part —

       (a) compels an advocate and solicitor to disclose or produce
            privileged communication, or a document or other material
            containing privileged communication, made by or to him
            or her in that capacity; or

       (b) authorises the taking of any such document or other
            material that is in his or her possession.

 (2) An advocate and solicitor who refuses to disclose the
information or produce the document or other material mentioned
in subsection (1) must nevertheless give the name and address (if he
or she knows them) of the person to whom, or by or on behalf of
whom, that privileged communication was made.

 (3) Any advocate and solicitor who contravenes subsection (2) shall
be guilty of an offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   72

                             PART 9

          AUTHORITY’S CONTROL OVER LICENSED
                           CREDIT BUREAUS

Interpretation of this Part

53. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

“business” includes affairs and property;

“office‑holder”, in relation to a licensed credit bureau, means
   any person acting as the liquidator, provisional liquidator,
   receiver, receiver and manager, judicial manager or an
   equivalent person of the licensed credit bureau;

“relevant business”, in relation to a licensed credit bureau,
   means any of its business —

          (a) in relation to which a statutory adviser has been
               appointed under section 54(2)(b);

          (b) in relation to which a statutory manager has been
               appointed under section 54(2)(c); or

          (c) that the Authority has assumed control of under
              section 54(2)(c);

“statutory adviser” means a statutory adviser appointed under
   section 54(2)(b);

“statutory manager” means a statutory manager appointed under
   section 54(2)(c).

Action by Authority if licensed credit bureau is unable to meet
obligations, etc.

 54.—(1) The Authority may exercise one or more of the powers
specified in subsection (2) as appears to it to be necessary, where —

       (a) a licensed credit bureau informs the Authority that it is or is
            likely to become insolvent, or that it is or is likely to
            become unable to meet its obligations, or that it has
            suspended or is about to suspend payments;

       (b) a licensed credit bureau is insolvent, becomes unable to
            meet its obligations, or suspends payments;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
73  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    (c) the Authority is of the opinion that the licensed credit
        bureau —

    (i) is carrying on its business in a manner likely to be
        detrimental to the confidentiality, security or
        integrity of any data held by the licensed credit
        bureau;

    (ii) is or is likely to become insolvent, or that it is or is
         likely to become unable to meet its obligations, or
         that it has suspended or is about to suspend
         payments;

    (iii) has contravened any of the provisions of this Act; or

    (iv) has failed to comply with any condition attached to
         its licence; or

    (d) the Authority considers it in the public interest to do so.

(2) Subject to subsection (1), the Authority may —

    (a) require the licensed credit bureau to immediately take any
         action or to do or not to do any act in relation to its business
         as the Authority may consider necessary;

    (b) appoint one or more persons as statutory adviser, on such
         terms as the Authority may specify, to advise the licensed
         credit bureau on the proper management of such of the
         licensed credit bureau’s business as the Authority may
         determine; or

    (c) assume control of and manage such of the licensed credit
        bureau’s business as the Authority may determine, or
        appoint one or more persons as statutory manager to do so
        on such terms as the Authority may specify.

 (3) Where the Authority appoints 2 or more persons as statutory
manager of a licensed credit bureau, the Authority must specify, in the
terms of the appointment, which of the duties, functions and powers
of the statutory manager —

    (a) may be discharged or exercised by such persons jointly and
         severally;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                     74

(b) must be discharged or exercised by such persons jointly;
     and

          (c) must be discharged or exercised by a specified person of
              such persons.

 (4) Where the Authority has exercised any power under
subsection (2), it may, at any time and without affecting its powers
under section 11(2) or (3), do one or more of the following:

(a) vary or revoke any requirement of, any appointment made
     by, or any action taken by the Authority under
     subsection (2) in the exercise of such power, on such
     terms as it may specify;

(b) exercise any of the powers under subsection (2);

          (c) add to, vary or revoke any term the Authority has specified
              under this section.

 (5) A statutory manager or a statutory adviser incurs no liability for
anything done (including any statement made) or omitted to be done
with reasonable care and in good faith in the course of or in
connection with —

(a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
     Act;

(b) the performance or purported performance of any function
     or duty under this Act; or

          (c) the compliance or purported compliance with this Act.

Assumption of control

 55.—(1) Upon assuming control of any business of a licensed credit
bureau under section 54(2)(c), the Authority or statutory manager (as
the case may be) must take custody or control of the relevant
business.

 (2) During the period when the Authority or statutory manager is in
control of a licensed credit bureau’s relevant business, the Authority
or statutory manager —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
75  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                     2020 Ed.

    (a) must manage the relevant business in the name of and on
         behalf of the licensed credit bureau; and

    (b) is treated as an agent of the licensed credit bureau.

 (3) In managing the licensed credit bureau’s relevant business, the
Authority or statutory manager —

    (a) must ensure that the operations of the licensed credit
         bureau are conducted without compromising the
         confidentiality, security or integrity of any data held by
         the licensed credit bureau; and

    (b) has all the duties, powers and functions of the members of
         the board of directors of the licensed credit bureau
         (collectively and individually) under —

    (i) this Act;

    (ii) the Companies Act 1967; and

    (iii) the licensed credit bureau’s constitution,

    (b) including powers of delegation, in relation to the relevant
         business.

 (4) Despite subsection (3), the Authority or statutory manager is not
required to call any meeting of the licensed credit bureau under the
Companies Act 1967 or the licensed credit bureau’s constitution.

(5) Despite any written law or rule of law —

    (a) upon the Authority or statutory manager assuming control
         of any business of a licensed credit bureau under
         section 54(2)(c), any appointment of an individual as
         chief executive officer or director of the licensed credit
         bureau that was in force immediately before the
         assumption of control is treated as revoked, unless the
         Authority gives its approval, by written notice to the
         individual and the licensed credit bureau, for the individual
         to remain in the appointment; and

    (b) during the period when the Authority or statutory manager
         is in control of the licensed credit bureau’s relevant
         business, an individual must not be appointed as chief

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   76

          executive officer or director of the licensed credit bureau,
          except with the approval of the Authority.

 (6) Where the Authority has given its approval under subsection (5)
for an individual to remain in the appointment of, or to be appointed
as, chief executive officer or director of a licensed credit bureau, the
Authority may at any time, by written notice to the individual, revoke
its approval and such appointment is treated as revoked on the date
specified in the notice.

 (7) Despite any written law or rule of law, if any individual whose
appointment as chief executive officer or director of a licensed credit
bureau is revoked under subsection (5) or (6), acts or purports to act
after the revocation as chief executive officer or director of the
licensed credit bureau during the period when the Authority or
statutory manager is in control of the licensed credit bureau’s relevant
business under section 54(2)(c) —

(a) the act or purported act of the individual is invalid and of
     no effect; and

(b) the individual shall be guilty of an offence.

 (8) Despite any written law or rule of law, if any individual who is
appointed as chief executive officer or director of a licensed credit
bureau in contravention of subsection (5) acts or purports to act as
chief executive officer or director of the licensed credit bureau during
the period when the Authority or statutory manager is in control of the
licensed credit bureau’s relevant business under section 54(2)(c) —

(a) the act or purported act of the individual is invalid and of
     no effect; and

(b) the individual shall be guilty of an offence.

 (9) During the period when the Authority or statutory manager is in
control of a licensed credit bureau’s relevant business —

(a) if there is any conflict or inconsistency between —

          (i) a direction or decision given by the Authority or
              statutory manager (including a direction or decision
              given to a person or body of persons mentioned in
              sub‑paragraph (ii)); and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
77  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    (ii) a direction or decision given by any chief executive
         officer, director, member, executive officer,
         employee, agent, office‑holder, or the board of
         directors, of the licensed credit bureau, or any
         trustee for the licensed credit bureau,

    (a) the direction or decision mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i)
         prevails over the direction or decision mentioned in
         sub‑paragraph (ii) to the extent of the conflict or
         inconsistency; and

    (b) a person must not exercise any voting or other right
         attached to any share in the licensed credit bureau in any
         manner that may defeat or interfere with any duty, power or
         function of the Authority or statutory manager, and any
         such act or purported act is invalid and of no effect.

 (10) Any individual who is guilty of an offence under
subsection (7) or (8) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

Other provisions concerning control

 56.—(1) The Authority must cease to be in control of a licensed
credit bureau’s relevant business when the Authority is satisfied that
the reasons for its assumption of control of the relevant business have
ceased to exist.

 (2) A statutory manager is treated to have assumed control of a
licensed credit bureau’s relevant business on the date of the statutory
manager’s appointment as a statutory manager.

 (3) Without limiting section 54(4)(a), the Authority may at any
time revoke the appointment of a statutory manager in relation to a
licensed credit bureau’s relevant business —

       (a) if the Authority is satisfied that the reasons for the
            appointment have ceased to exist;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   78

(b) if the confidentiality, security or integrity of any data held
     by the licensed credit bureau is compromised; or

          (c) on any other ground.

 (4) The statutory manager must cease to be in control of the relevant
business upon revocation of its appointment under subsection (3) or
section 54(4)(a).

 (5) The Authority must publish in the Gazette the date, and any
other particulars that it thinks fit, of —

(a) its assuming control of a licensed credit bureau’s relevant
     business;

(b) the cessation of its control of a licensed credit bureau’s
     relevant business;

          (c) the appointment of a statutory manager in relation to a
              licensed credit bureau’s relevant business; and

(d) the revocation of a statutory manager’s appointment in
     relation to a licensed credit bureau’s relevant business.

Responsibilities of directors, officers, etc., of licensed credit
bureau

 57.—(1) During the period when the Authority or statutory
manager is in control of a licensed credit bureau’s relevant
business —

       (a) the General Division of the High Court may, on an
            application of the Authority or statutory manager, direct
            any former or current relevant person of the licensed credit
            bureau to pay, deliver, convey, surrender or transfer to the
            Authority or statutory manager, within such period as the
            General Division of the High Court may specify, any
            property or book of the licensed credit bureau that —

               (i) forms part of or relates to the business of the licensed
                   credit bureau; and

              (ii) is in the person’s possession or control; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
79  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    (b) any former or current relevant person of the licensed credit
         bureau must provide the Authority or statutory manager
         such information as the Authority or statutory manager
         may require to —

    (i) discharge its duties or functions; or

    (ii) exercise its powers,

      (b) in relation to the licensed credit bureau, within such time
           and in such manner as the Authority or statutory manager
           may specify.

                                                                                                         [40/2019]

(2) Any person who —

    (a) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
         subsection (1)(b); or

    (b) in purported compliance with subsection (1)(b), knowingly
         or recklessly provides any information or document that is
         false or misleading in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence (if
applicable), to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
part of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (3) In this section, “relevant person”, in relation to a licensed credit
bureau, means a chief executive officer, director, executive officer,
employee, agent, banker, auditor or office‑holder of, or trustee for, the
licensed credit bureau.

Remuneration and expenses of Authority and others in certain
cases

 58. The Authority may at any time fix the remuneration and
expenses to be paid by a licensed credit bureau —

       (a) to a statutory adviser or statutory manager appointed in
            relation to the licensed credit bureau, whether or not the
            appointment has been revoked; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   80

(b) where the Authority has assumed control of any business
     of a licensed credit bureau under section 54(2)(c), to the
     Authority and any person appointed by the Authority under
     section 5 in relation to its assumption of control of such
     business, whether or not the Authority has ceased to be in
     control of such business.

Matters requiring approval of Authority

 59.—(1) A licensed credit bureau must apply in writing for
approval from the Authority before —

       (a) carrying on any business other than credit reporting
            business;

       (b) any change in —

               (i) the licensed credit bureau’s name;

              (ii) the licensed credit bureau’s constitution;

             (iii) the licensed credit bureau’s shareholding;

             (iv) the reciprocity arrangement or equivalent operating
                   rules between the licensed credit bureau and any of
                   its approved members;

              (v) the format of a credit report and specifications of the
                   data to be processed;

             (vi) the scope, definition, classification and retention
                   period of data collected, used or disclosed by the
                   licensed credit bureau;

            (vii) the credit scoring methodology, credit scoring model
                   validation method, analysis and reporting of credit
                   scoring used by the licensed credit bureau;

            (viii) any other products or services offered by the licensed
                   credit bureau; or

             (ix) any matter that may impact or potentially impact the
                   confidentiality, security or integrity of any data held
                   by the licensed credit bureau; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
81  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    (c) any addition to, removal of or amendment to the terms or
        rules of membership of the licensed credit bureau.

(2) The Authority may —

    (a) grant its approval, with or without conditions; and

    (b) at any time vary or revoke any condition of approval in
         paragraph (a), or impose conditions or additional
         conditions in respect of any approval granted under
         paragraph (a).

 (3) Any person that contravenes subsection (1) or any condition
imposed by the Authority under subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                   PART 10

                                  OFFENCES

Offences by corporations

 60.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation, or a member of a
                   corporation whose affairs are managed by its
                   members; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.               Credit Bureau Act 2016                      82

          (ii) an individual who is involved in the management of
               the corporation and is in a position to influence the
               conduct of the corporation in relation to the
               commission of the offence; and

(b) who —

          (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
              effect the commission of the offence;

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the offence by the corporation; or

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                commission of that offence,

shall (if this is not already an offence under section 62(1)) be guilty of
the same offence as is the corporation, and shall be liable on
conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

(b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
     regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

“corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
   meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
   Act 2005;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
83  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
       partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
       officer of the corporation, and includes —

    (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

    (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
         members, any of those members as if the member
         were a director of the corporation;

    “state of mind” of a person includes —

    (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
         of the person; and

    (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
         or purpose.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 61.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association of
            the partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of
            his or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual who is involved in the management of
                   the unincorporated association or partnership and is
                   in a position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership (as the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.   Credit Bureau Act 2016                                  84

          case may be) in relation to the commission of the
          offence; and

(b) who —

          (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
              effect the commission of the offence;

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the offence by the unincorporated
               association or partnership; or

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the unincorporated association or
                partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

(b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
     regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
85                     Credit Bureau Act 2016                2020 Ed.

(6) In this section —

    “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
       a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
       member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
       and includes —

    (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
         president, secretary or member of a committee of the
         unincorporated association; and

    (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

    “state of mind” of a person includes —

    (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
         of the person; and

    (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
         or purpose.

Offences by officers

 62.—(1) Any officer of a licensed credit bureau whose duty is or
includes ensuring that the licensed credit bureau complies with a
provision of this Act, who fails to take all reasonable steps to secure
such compliance, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (2) Any officer of a licensed credit bureau whose duty is or includes
submitting information to the Authority or any other person under
this Act, who fails to take all reasonable steps to ensure the accuracy
and correctness of any information so submitted, shall (if such failure
is not already an offence under section 64(1) or (2)) be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

 (3) In any proceedings against an officer under subsection (1) or
(2), it is a defence for the officer to prove that he or she had reasonable
grounds for believing that —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   86

(a) another individual was charged with the duty of —

          (i) securing compliance with the requirements of this
              Act; or

          (ii) ensuring that the information submitted was
               accurate,

(a) as the case may be; and

(b) that individual was competent, and in a position, to
     discharge that duty.

 (4) An officer is not to be sentenced to imprisonment for any
offence under subsection (1) or (2) unless, in the opinion of the court,
he or she committed the offence wilfully.

Falsification of records by officers, etc.

 63.—(1) Any officer, auditor, employee or agent of a licensed
credit bureau who —

       (a) wilfully makes, or causes to be made, a false entry in any
            book, or in any report, slip, document or statement of the
            business, affairs, transactions, conditions or assets of that
            licensed credit bureau;

       (b) wilfully omits to make an entry in any book, or in any
            report, slip, document or statement of the business, affairs,
            transactions, conditions or assets of that licensed credit
            bureau, or wilfully causes any such entry to be omitted; or

       (c) wilfully alters, extracts, conceals or destroys an entry in
            any book, or in any report, slip, document or statement of
            the business, affairs, transactions, conditions or assets of
            that licensed credit bureau, or wilfully causes any such
            entry to be altered, extracted, concealed or destroyed,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both.

 (2) In subsection (1), “officer” includes a person purporting to act in
the capacity of an officer.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
87  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

Duty to use reasonable care not to provide false information to
Authority

 64.—(1) Any individual who provides the Authority with any
information under or for the purposes of any provision of this Act
must use reasonable care to ensure that the information is not false or
misleading in any material particular.

(2) Any individual who —

    (a) signs any document lodged with the Authority; or

    (b) lodges with the Authority any document by electronic
         means using any identification or identifying code,
         password or other authentication method or procedure
         assigned to him or her by the Authority,

must use reasonable care to ensure that the document is not false or
misleading in any material particular.

 (3) Any individual who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall (if
the provision of such information, or the signing or lodging of such
document, that is false or misleading in a material particular is not
already an offence under any other provision of this Act) be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both.

General penalty

 65. Any person guilty of an offence under this Act for which no
penalty is expressly provided shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $50,000; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

Composition of offences

 66.—(1) The Authority may compound any offence under this Act
that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   88

of money not exceeding half of the amount of the maximum fine
prescribed for that offence.

 (2) The Authority may compound any offence under this Act
(including an offence under a provision that has been repealed)
that —

(a) was compoundable under this section when the offence
     was committed; but

(b) has ceased to be so compoundable,

by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum of money not exceeding half of the
amount of the maximum fine prescribed for that offence at the time it
was committed.

 (3) On payment of the sum of money mentioned in subsection (1) or
(2), no further proceedings are to be taken against that person in
respect of the offence.

 (4) All sums collected by the Authority under subsection (1) or (2)
must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                    PART 11

                                   APPEALS

Appeals to Minister

 67.—(1) Where an appeal is made to the Minister under this Act,
the Minister may —

       (a) confirm, vary or reverse the decision of the Authority on
            appeal; and

       (b) give any directions in the matter that the Minister thinks fit,

and the decision of the Minister is final.

 (2) Where an appeal is made to the Minister under this Act, the
Minister must, within 28 days after receiving the appeal —

       (a) constitute an Appeal Advisory Committee comprising at
            least 3 members of the Appeal Advisory Panel; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
89  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    (b) refer the appeal to the Appeal Advisory Committee.

 (3) The Appeal Advisory Committee must submit to the Minister a
written report on the appeal referred to it under subsection (2) and
may make such recommendations as it thinks fit.

 (4) The Minister must consider the report submitted under
subsection (3) in making his or her decision under subsection (1)
but he or she is not bound by the recommendations in the report.

Appeal Advisory Committee

 68.—(1) For the purpose of enabling an Appeal Advisory
Committee to be constituted under section 67, the Minister must
appoint a panel (called in this Part the Appeal Advisory Panel)
comprising such members from the financial services industry, and
the public and private sectors, as the Minister may appoint.

 (2) A member of the Appeal Advisory Panel is to be appointed for a
term of up to 2 years and is eligible for re‑appointment.

 (3) An Appeal Advisory Committee has the power, in the exercise
of its functions, to inquire into any matter or thing related to the
financial services industry and, for this purpose, may summon any
person to give evidence on oath or affirmation or produce any
document or material necessary for the purposes of the inquiry.

 (4) Nothing in subsection (3) —

       (a) compels an advocate and solicitor to disclose or produce
            privileged communication, or a document or other material
            containing privileged communication, made by or to him
            or her in that capacity; or

       (b) authorises the taking of any such document or other
            material that is in his or her possession.

 (5) An advocate and solicitor who refuses to produce any document
or other material mentioned in subsection (4) must nevertheless give
the name and address (if he or she knows them) of the person to
whom, or by or on behalf of whom, the privileged communication
was made.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   90

 (6) For the purposes of this Act, every member of an Appeal
Advisory Committee —

(a) is deemed to be a public servant for the purposes of the
     Penal Code 1871; and

(b) in case of any suit or other legal proceedings brought
     against him or her for any act done or omitted to be done in
     the execution of his or her duty under this Part, has the
     same protection and privileges as are by law given to a
     Judge in the execution of his or her office.

 (7) Every Appeal Advisory Committee must have regard to the
public interest, the protection of data subjects and the safeguarding of
sources of information.

 (8) Subject to the provisions of this Part, an Appeal Advisory
Committee may regulate its own procedure and is not bound by the
rules of evidence.

Disclosure of information

 69. Nothing in this Act requires the Minister or any public servant
(including a member of an Appeal Advisory Committee deemed to be
a public servant under section 68(6)(a)) to disclose facts that he or she
considers to be contrary to the public interest to disclose.

Regulations for purposes of this Part

 70.—(1) The Minister may make regulations prescribing matters
required or permitted by this Part to be prescribed, or necessary or
convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this
Part.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may make
regulations for or with respect to —

       (a) the appointment of members to, and procedures of, the
            Appeal Advisory Panel and Appeal Advisory Committees;

       (b) the form and manner in which an appeal to the Minister
            under this Act is to be made;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
91  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    (c) the fees to be paid in respect of any appeal made to the
        Minister under this Act;

    (d) the remuneration of the members of the Appeal Advisory
         Panel and Appeal Advisory Committees; and

    (e) all matters and things that by this Part are required or
        permitted to be prescribed or that are necessary or
        expedient to be prescribed to give effect to any provision
        of this Part.

                                   PART 12
                             MISCELLANEOUS
Jurisdiction of District Court
 71. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has —
       (a) jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act; and
       (b) power to impose the full penalty or punishment in respect
            of any offence under this Act.

Opportunity to be heard
 72. Where this Act provides for a person to be given an opportunity

to be heard by the Authority, the Authority may prescribe the manner
in which the person is to be given such opportunity to be heard.

Power of court to make certain orders
 73.—(1) Where, on an application of the Authority, it appears to the

court that a person —
       (a) has committed an offence under this Act; or
       (b) is about to do an act that, if done, would be an offence
            under this Act,

the court may (without prejudice to any other order it may make)
make one or more of the orders under subsection (2).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   92

(2) The orders mentioned in subsection (1) are —

(a) in the case of a persistent or continuing contravention of a
     provision of this Act, an order restraining a person from —

          (i) carrying on a credit reporting business under
              section 6; or

          (ii) holding itself out as a licensed credit bureau under
               section 9;

(b) for the purpose of securing compliance with any order
     made under this section, an order directing a person to do
     or refrain from doing any specified act; or

          (c) any ancillary order the court considers to be desirable as a
              result of making any other order under this section.

 (3) The court may, before making an order under subsection (2),
direct that notice of the application be given to any person that it
thinks fit or that notice of the application be published in any manner
that it thinks fit, or both.

 (4) Any person that, without reasonable excuse, contravenes an
order made under subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction —

(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $50,000
     or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
     both; or

(b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

 (5) Subject to subsection (6), subsection (4) does not affect the
powers of the court in relation to the punishment of contempt of court.

 (6) Where a person is convicted of an offence under subsection (4)
in respect of any contravention of an order made under subsection (2),
such contravention is not punishable as a contempt of court.

 (7) A person cannot be convicted of an offence under subsection (4)
in respect of any contravention of an order made under subsection (2)
that has been punished as a contempt of court.

 (8) The court may rescind, vary or discharge an order made by it
under this section or suspend the operation of such an order.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
93                 Credit Bureau Act 2016                    2020 Ed.

General exemption

 74.—(1) The Authority may, by regulations, exempt any person or
any class of persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act,
subject to such conditions as may be prescribed.

 (2) The Authority may, on the application of any person, exempt the
person from —

    (a) all or any of the provisions of this Act; or

    (b) the requirements specified in any written notice,

if the Authority considers it appropriate to do so in the circumstances
of the case.

(3) An exemption under subsection (2) —

    (a) may be granted by written notice subject to such conditions
         as the Authority may specify in the notice;

    (b) need not be published in the Gazette; and

    (c) may be withdrawn at any time by the Authority.

 (4) The Authority may at any time add to, vary or revoke any term
or condition imposed under this section.

(5) Any person that contravenes any condition —

    (a) prescribed under subsection (1);

    (b) specified by the Authority under subsection (3)(a); or

    (c) added or varied under subsection (4),

shall be guilty of an offence.

Power of Authority to issue written notice

 75.—(1) The Authority may, if it thinks it necessary or expedient in
the interest of the public or a section of the public, or for the
protection of data subjects, issue a written notice, either of a general
or a specific nature, to —

       (a) any licensed credit bureau;

       (b) any class of licensed credit bureaus;

       (c) any approved member of a licensed credit bureau; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   94

(d) any class of approved members of a licensed credit bureau,

to comply with such requirements as the Authority may specify in the
notice.

(2) Without limiting subsection (1), a notice may be issued —

(a) with respect to —

          (i) the activities that may be carried out by —

          (A) the licensed credit bureau in relation to its
               business; or

          (B) the approved member of a licensed credit
               bureau in relation to its membership of that
               licensed credit bureau;

          (ii) the standards, framework, policies and procedures
               for —

          (A) the prudent management of risks (including
               information technology risks); and

          (B) the protection of the confidentiality, security
               and integrity of any data held by the licensed
               credit bureau;

          (iii) the financial soundness, financial management and
                stability of the licensed credit bureau;

          (iv) the membership and reciprocity arrangements,
               internal controls and operations of the licensed
               credit bureau;

          (v) the standards to be maintained by the licensed credit
               bureau in the conduct of its business;

          (vi) the arrangement and conditions that are to apply if
               the licensed credit bureau appoints any person as an
               independent contractor to carry out any of the
               licensed credit bureau’s functions and duties;

          (vii) the type, form, manner and frequency of returns and
                other information to be submitted to the Authority;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
95  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    (viii) the preparation and publication of reports on the
           performance of the licensed credit bureau;

    (ix) the remuneration of an auditor appointed under this
         Act and the costs of an audit carried out under this
         Act;

    (x) the manner in which the licensed credit bureau
         conducts its operations, including —

    (A) the scope, definition, classification and
         retention period of any data collected, used
         or disclosed by the licensed credit bureau; and

    (B) the credit scoring methodology, credit scoring
         model validation method, analysis and
         reporting of credit scoring to be used by the
         licensed credit bureau; and

    (xi) the collection by or on behalf of the Authority of
         information from the licensed credit bureau in
         relation to the conduct of the licensed credit
         bureau’s credit reporting business at such intervals
         or on such occasions as may be set out in the notice;

    (b) where any person is contravening, is likely to contravene
         or has contravened, any provision of this Act, to require the
         person —

    (i) to comply with that provision or to cease
        contravening that provision;

    (ii) to take any action necessary to enable the person to
         conduct the person’s business in accordance with
         sound principles; and

    (iii) where the person is a company, to remove any of its
          directors; and

    (c) for any other purpose specified in this Act.

 (3) It is not necessary to publish any written notice issued under
subsection (1) in the Gazette.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   96

 (4) The Authority may at any time vary, rescind or revoke any
notice issued under subsection (1).

 (5) Any person that fails to comply with any requirement specified
in a notice issued under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000
and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Codes, guidelines, etc., by Authority

 76.—(1) The Authority may issue, and in its discretion publish by
notification in the Gazette or in any other manner it considers
appropriate, such codes, guidelines, policy statements, practice notes
and no‑action letters as it considers appropriate for providing
guidance —

       (a) in furtherance of its regulatory objectives;

       (b) in relation to any matter relating to any of its functions
            under this Act; or

       (c) in relation to the operation of any of the provisions of this
            Act.

 (2) The Authority may, at any time, amend or revoke the whole or
any part of any code, guideline, policy statement, practice note or
no‑action letter issued under this section.

 (3) Where amendments are made under subsection (2) —

       (a) the other provisions of this section apply, with the
            necessary modifications, to such amendments as they
            apply to the code, guideline, policy statement, practice note
            or no‑action letter; and

       (b) any reference in this Act or any other written law to the
            code, guideline, policy statement, practice note or
            no‑action letter, however expressed, is (unless the
            context otherwise requires) a reference to the code,
            guideline, policy statement, practice note or no‑action
            letter as so amended.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
97  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

 (4) Any failure by a person to comply with any provision of a code,
guideline, policy statement or practice note issued under this section
to the person does not of itself render that person liable to criminal
proceedings, but any such failure may, in any proceedings, whether
civil or criminal, be relied upon by any party to the proceedings as
tending to establish or negate any liability that is in question in the
proceedings.

 (5) The issue by the Authority of a no‑action letter does not of itself
prevent the institution of any proceedings against any person for the
contravention of any provision of this Act.

 (6) Any code, guideline, policy statement or practice note issued
under this section may be of general or specific application, and may
specify that different provisions of such code, guideline, policy
statement or practice note apply to different circumstances or provide
for different cases or classes of cases.

 (7) To avoid doubt, any code, guideline, policy statement, practice
note or no‑action letter issued under this section is not to be treated as
subsidiary legislation.

 (8) In this section, “no‑action letter” means a letter written by the
Authority to a person to the effect that, if the facts are as represented
by the person, the Authority will not institute proceedings against the
person in respect of a particular state of affairs or particular conduct.

Regulations

 77.—(1) The Authority may make regulations prescribing matters
required or permitted by this Act to be prescribed, or necessary or
convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this
Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may make
regulations for or with respect to —

       (a) the fees to be paid in respect of any matter or thing required
            for the purposes of this Act;

       (b) the corporate governance of licensed credit bureaus;

       (c) prescribing the offences that may be compounded; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   98

(d) prescribing the procedure —

          (i) for the use of the electronic service mentioned in
              section 79; and

          (ii) in circumstances where there is a breakdown or
               interruption of the electronic service.

 (3) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, regulations
made under this Act —

(a) may be of general or specific application;

(b) may contain provisions of a saving or transitional nature;

          (c) may provide that a contravention of any specified
              provision of the regulations shall be an offence; and

(d) may provide —

          (i) in the case of an individual, for penalties not
              exceeding a fine of $50,000 or imprisonment for a
              term not exceeding 2 years or both for each offence
              and, in the case of a continuing offence, a further
              penalty not exceeding a fine of $5,000 for every day
              or part of a day during which the offence continues
              after conviction; and

          (ii) in any other case, for penalties not exceeding a fine
               of $100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence,
               a further penalty not exceeding a fine of $10,000 for
               every day or part of a day during which the offence
               continues after conviction.

Service of documents

 78.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents or,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
99  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   2020 Ed.

    if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
    address or business address;

    (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
        adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
        business address with an adult apparently employed there;

    (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
         at the individual’s residential address or business address;
         or

    (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
        person giving or serving the document as the fax number
        for the service of documents on the individual.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

    (a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer of the
         partnership;

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the partnership’s business address; or

    (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
        partnership’s business address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

    (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
         body corporate or the unincorporated association, or the
         limited liability partnership’s manager;

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the body corporate’s or unincorporated association’s
         registered office or principal office; or

    (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the body
        corporate’s or unincorporated association’s registered
        office or principal office.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.               Credit Bureau Act 2016                      100

 (5) Service of a document under subsection (2), (3) or (4) takes
effect —

(a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
     successful transmission is received, on the day of
     transmission; and

(b) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
     after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
     undelivered).

 (6) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

(7) In this section —

“business address” means —

          (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
               last known place of business in Singapore; or

          (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
               liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
               last known place of business in Singapore;

“document” includes a notice permitted or required by this Act
   to be served;

“residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
   place of residence in Singapore.

Electronic service

 79.—(1) The Authority may provide an electronic service for the
service of any document that is required or authorised by this Act to
be served on any person.

 (2) For the purposes of the electronic service, the Authority may
assign to any person —

       (a) an authentication code; and

       (b) an account with the electronic service.

 (3) Despite section 78, where a person has given consent for any
document to be served on the person through the electronic service —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
101                    Credit Bureau Act 2016                 2020 Ed.

     (a) the Authority may serve the document on that person by
          transmitting an electronic record of the document to that
          person’s account with the electronic service; and

     (b) the document is treated as having been served at the time
          when an electronic record of the document enters the
          person’s account with the electronic service.

(4) In this section —

     “account with the electronic service”, in relation to any person,
        means a computer account within the electronic service that
        is assigned by the Authority to the person for the storage and
        retrieval of electronic records relating to the person;

     “authentication code”, in relation to any person, means an
        identification or identifying code, a password or any other
        authentication method or procedure that is assigned to the
        person for the purposes of identifying and authenticating the
        access to and use of the electronic service by the person;

     “document” includes a notice and order;

     “electronic record” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
        Electronic Transactions Act 2010.

Amendment of Schedules

 80.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend, add to
or vary the First Schedule.

 (2) The Minister may, in any order made under subsection (1),
make such incidental, consequential or supplementary provisions as
may be necessary or expedient.

 (3) Any order made under subsection (1) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Saving and transitional provisions

 81.—(1) Any person (Y) that, immediately before 31 May 2021, is
recognised as a credit bureau by the Authority by notification in the
Gazette for the purposes of the Third Schedule to the Banking
Act 1970, is treated as having been granted a licence under

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Credit Bureau Act 2016                                   102

section 7(3) of this Act to carry on consumer credit reporting business
(called in this section a transitional licence) until —

(a) 6 months after 31 May 2021; or

(b) where Y applies for a licence on or before the end of the
     period in paragraph (a), the date on which the licence is
     granted to Y or the application is refused or withdrawn.

 (2) Any condition to which Y is subject as a recognised credit
bureau in subsection (1) immediately before 31 May 2021 is, to the
extent that it is consistent with the provisions of this Act, treated as a
condition to which Y is subject under its transitional licence.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), any person (X) (not being a person set
out in the First Schedule) that immediately before 31 May 2021 is a
member of Y, is treated as having been approved under section 29(6)
of this Act as an approved member of Y until —

(a) 6 months after 31 May 2021; or

(b) where an application is made for X to be an approved
     member on or before the end of the period in paragraph (a),
     the date on which the Authority approves X as an approved
     member or the application is refused or withdrawn.

 (4) Any individual who, immediately before 31 May 2021, is a
chief executive officer or director of Y, is treated as having been
appointed as a chief executive officer or director of the licensed credit
bureau with the approval of the Authority under section 46(2)(b) of
this Act.

 (5) For a period of 2 years after 31 May 2021, the Minister may, by
regulations, prescribe such further saving, transitional and other
consequential provisions as the Minister may consider necessary or
expedient.

                                                                               [84

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
103            Credit Bureau Act 2016                         2020 Ed.

               FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                     Sections 29(1) and (9), 80(1) and 81(3)

                MEMBERS OF LICENSED CREDIT BUREAU
                     DEEMED AS APPROVED MEMBERS

1. A bank
2. A merchant bank

3. A finance company licensed under the Finance Companies Act 1967
4. A card issuer

               SECOND SCHEDULE                                Section 5(2)

               SPECIFIED PROVISIONS

1. Section 74

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                CREDIT BUREAU ACT 2016

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 27 of 2016 — Credit Bureau Act 2016

Bill                  : 27/2016

First Reading         : 10 October 2016

Second and Third Readings : 9 November 2016

Commencement          : 31 May 2021

2. Act 2 of 2019 — Payment Services Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 111 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 48/2018

First Reading         : 19 November 2018

Second and Third Readings : 14 January 2019

Commencement          : 31 May 2021 (section 111)

3. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 29(3) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 31 May 2021 (section 29(3))

4. 2020 Revised Edition — Credit Bureau Act 2016

Operation             : 31 December 2021

5. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021

Bill                  : 18/2021

First Reading         : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement          : 1 April 2022

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
               ii

6. Act 18 of 2022 — Financial Services and Markets Act 2022

Bill           : 4/2022

First Reading  : 14 February 2022

Second and Third Readings : 5 April 2022

Commencement   : 28 April 2023 (Section 196(1) and (3))
                     31 July 2024 (Section 196(2))

7. Act 5 of 2025 — Electronic Gazette and Legislation Act 2025

Bill           : 47/2024

First Reading  : 11 November 2024

Second and Third Readings : 7 January 2025

Commencement   : 9 March 2025

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
   COMPARATIVE TABLE
CREDIT BUREAU ACT 2016

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                  2020 Ed.              Act 27 of 2016
[Omitted as having had effect]
[Omitted as having had effect]  81
[Omitted as having had effect]  82
81                              83
[Omitted as having had effect]  84

                                   (6)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
