THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                    HUMAN CLONING AND

             OTHER PROHIBITED PRACTICES
                               ACT 2004

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2023
                                                                  2020 Ed.

            Human Cloning and
         Other Prohibited Practices

                   Act 2004

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                                 PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Act to bind Government
     2.
     3.

                                       PART 2
                               ADMINISTRATION
4. Administration of Act

                                        PART 3

                           PROHIBITED PRACTICES

                           Division 1 — Human cloning

 5. Prohibition against placing human embryo clone in body of
         human or animal

 6. No defence that human embryo clone could not survive

                    Division 2 — Other prohibited practices

 7. Prohibition against developing human embryo created other
         than by fertilisation of human egg by human sperm

 8. Prohibition against developing human embryo outside body of
         woman for more than 14 days

 9. Prohibition against collecting viable human embryo from body
         of woman

10. Prohibition against certain uses of embryo
11. Prohibition against placing prohibited embryo in body of woman
12. Prohibition against importing and exporting prohibited embryos

                                                      1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2023
          Human Cloning and

          Other Prohibited Practices

2020 Ed.  Act 2004                                                  2

Section

   13. Prohibition against commercial trading in human eggs, human
            sperm and human embryos

                                        PART 4
                         POWERS OF ENFORCEMENT

14. Power of entry, inspection, search, seizure, etc.
15. Protection from personal liability

                                        PART 5

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

16. Obstructing enforcement officer in execution of duties
17. Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
18. Offences
19. Consent to prosecute
20. Jurisdiction of court
21. Service of documents
22. Regulations

An Act to prohibit the placing of a human embryo clone in the body
  of a human or an animal and certain other practices associated with
  reproductive technology.

                                                              [1 October 2004]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Human Cloning and Other Prohibited Practices
Act 2004.

Interpretation
 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “animal” does not include a human;
       [Deleted by Act 11 of 2023 wef 01/05/2023]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2023
   Human Cloning and

   Other Prohibited Practices

3  Act 2004                                                 2020 Ed.

   “Director‑General” means the Director‑General of Health;

                                                                          [Act 11 of 2023 wef 01/05/2023]

   “enforcement officer” means the Director‑General and any other
      public officer or any officer of any statutory authority who is
      appointed by the Director‑General under section 4 to be an
      enforcement officer for the purposes of this Act;

                                                                          [Act 11 of 2023 wef 01/05/2023]

   “human embryo” means any live embryo that —

   (a) has a human genome or an altered human genome;
        and

   (b) has been developing for less than 8 weeks since the
        appearance of 2 pro‑nuclei or the initiation of its
        development by other means;

   “human embryo clone” means any human embryo that is a
      genetic copy of another living or dead human, but does not
      include a human embryo created by the fertilisation of a
      human egg by human sperm;

   “human sperm” includes human spermatids;

   “prohibited embryo” means —

   (a) any human embryo that has been developing outside
        the body of a woman for a period of more than
        14 days, excluding any period when the development
        is suspended;

   (b) any human embryo that was removed from the body
        of a woman by a person intending to collect a viable
        human embryo; or

   (c) such other thing as may be prescribed to be a
       prohibited embryo for the purposes of this Act;

   “prohibited practice” means any of the practices prohibited
      under Part 3.

 (2) For the purposes of establishing that a human embryo clone is a
genetic copy of another living or dead human —

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2023
          Human Cloning and

          Other Prohibited Practices

2020 Ed.  Act 2004                    4

(a) it is sufficient to establish that the set of genes in the nuclei
     of the cells of the living or dead human has been copied;
     and

(b) it is not necessary to establish that the copy is an identical
     genetic copy.

 (3) For the purposes of the definition of “human embryo” in
subsection (1), in working out the length of the period of development
of a human embryo, any period when the development of the embryo
is suspended is to be disregarded.

 (4) For the purposes of the definition of “human embryo clone” in
subsection (1), a human embryo that results from the technological
process known as embryo splitting is not to be taken as created by a
process of fertilisation of a human egg by human sperm.

Act to bind Government
 3. This Act binds the Government.

                                    PART 2

                            ADMINISTRATION

Administration of Act

 4.—(1) The Director‑General is responsible for the administration
and enforcement of this Act, subject to the general and special
directions of the Minister.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2023 wef 01/05/2023]

 (2) The Director‑General may in writing appoint any public officer
or any officer of any statutory authority to be an enforcement officer
for the purposes of this Act.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2023 wef 01/05/2023]

 (3) Every enforcement officer must, when exercising his or her
powers and carrying out his or her duties under this Act, comply with
such general or special directions as may, from time to time, be given
to him or her by the Director‑General.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2023 wef 01/05/2023]

 (4) Every enforcement officer must, when exercising any of his or
her powers under this Act —

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2023
   Human Cloning and

   Other Prohibited Practices

5  Act 2004                                                 2020 Ed.

   (a) if not in uniform, declare his or her office; and

       (b) on demand, produce to any person affected by the exercise
            of those powers such identification card as the
            Director‑General may direct to be carried by the
            enforcement officer when exercising such powers.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2023 wef 01/05/2023]

 (5) Every enforcement officer appointed under subsection (2) is
deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal
Code 1871.

                                    PART 3
                       PROHIBITED PRACTICES
                       Division 1 — Human cloning
Prohibition against placing human embryo clone in body of
human or animal
 5. A person must not place any human embryo clone in the body of
a human or the body of an animal.

No defence that human embryo clone could not survive
 6. It is not a defence to an offence under section 5 that the human

embryo clone did not survive or could not have survived.

                Division 2 — Other prohibited practices
Prohibition against developing human embryo created other
than by fertilisation of human egg by human sperm

 7. A person must not develop any human embryo, that is created by
a process other than the fertilisation of a human egg by human sperm,
for a period of more than 14 days, excluding any period when the
development of the embryo is suspended.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2023
          Human Cloning and

          Other Prohibited Practices

2020 Ed.  Act 2004                                                 6

Prohibition against developing human embryo outside body of
woman for more than 14 days

 8. A person must not develop any human embryo outside the body
of a woman for a period of more than 14 days, excluding any period
when the development of the embryo is suspended.

Prohibition against collecting viable human embryo from body
of woman

 9. A person must not remove any human embryo from the body of a
woman for the purpose of collecting a viable human embryo.

Prohibition against certain uses of embryo

 10. A person must not —

       (a) place any human embryo in an animal;

       (b) place any human embryo in the body of a human, other
            than in a woman’s reproductive tract; or

       (c) place any animal embryo in the body of a human for any
            period of gestation.

Prohibition against placing prohibited embryo in body of
woman

 11. A person must not place any embryo in the body of a woman
knowing that, or reckless as to whether, the embryo is a prohibited
embryo.

Prohibition against importing and exporting prohibited
embryos

 12. A person must not knowingly —
       (a) import any prohibited embryo into Singapore; or
       (b) export any prohibited embryo out of Singapore.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2023
                          Human Cloning and

   Other Prohibited Practices

7                         Act 2004                          2020 Ed.

Prohibition against commercial trading in human eggs, human
sperm and human embryos

   13.—(1) A person must not —

   (a) give or offer valuable consideration to another person; or

   (b) receive, or offer to receive, valuable consideration from
        another person,

for the supply of any human egg, human sperm or human embryo.

 (2) Any contract or arrangement entered into by any person in
contravention of subsection (1) is void.

 (3) Subsection (2) does not apply to or in relation to any contract or
arrangement providing only for the reimbursement of any reasonable
expenses incurred by a person in relation to the supply of any human
egg, human sperm or human embryo.

 (4) To avoid doubt, any reference in this section to the supply of any
human egg, human sperm or human embryo does not include the
provision of any service for facilitating the donation and receipt of
any human egg, human sperm or human embryo by receiving,
storing, processing and subsequently implanting the donated human
egg, human sperm or human embryo in the body of another human,
whether or not for consideration.

   (5) In this section —

   “reasonable expenses” —

   (a) in relation to the supply of any human egg or human
        sperm, includes, but is not limited to, expenses
        relating to the collection, storage or transport of the
        egg or sperm; and

   (b) in relation to the supply of any human embryo,
        includes, but is not limited to, expenses relating to the
        storage or transport of the embryo;

   “valuable consideration”, in relation to the supply of any human
      egg, human sperm or human embryo by a person, includes
      any inducement, discount or priority in the provision of a
      service to the person, but does not include the payment of

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2023
          Human Cloning and

          Other Prohibited Practices

2020 Ed.  Act 2004                                                 8

          reasonable expenses incurred by the person in connection
          with the supply.

                                    PART 4

                     POWERS OF ENFORCEMENT

Power of entry, inspection, search, seizure, etc.

 14.—(1) For the purpose of investigating whether any provision of
this Act has been or is being contravened, an enforcement officer
may, at any time and without warrant, enter, inspect and search any
premises and the facilities in the premises that are being used, or that
the enforcement officer has reasonable cause to believe are being
used, for any prohibited practice.

 (2) In exercising his or her powers under subsection (1), an
enforcement officer may —

       (a) inspect any apparatus, appliance, equipment or instrument
            used or found in those premises;

       (b) inspect, test, examine, remove and detain any sample of
            human, animal or plant tissue or any other substance or
            matter found in those premises;

       (c) inspect and make copies of and take extracts from, or
            require the person having the control or management of
            those premises or any other person found in those premises
            to provide copies of or extracts from, any book, document,
            record or electronic material that relates to, or that
            reasonably appears to relate to, any prohibited practice;

       (d) require the person having the control or management of
            those premises to provide such information as the
            enforcement officer may require in relation to —

               (i) any person involved in carrying out any prohibited
                   practice in those premises;

              (ii) any prohibited practice that has been or is being
                   carried out in those premises;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2023
   Human Cloning and

   Other Prohibited Practices

9  Act 2004                                                 2020 Ed.

   (iii) any apparatus, appliance, equipment or instrument
         that has been or is being used in carrying out any
         prohibited practice in those premises;

   (iv) the source of any human, animal or plant tissue or
        any other substance or matter that has been or is
        being used in any such prohibited practice; or

   (v) any other matter that is relevant to the administration
        or enforcement of this Act; and

   (e) seize and remove from those premises any book,
       document, record, electronic material, apparatus,
       appliance, equipment, instrument, sample, human,
       animal or plant tissue or other substance or matter which
       the enforcement officer reasonably believes to be the
       subject matter of, or to be connected with the commission
       of, an offence under this Act.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), any article seized or taken by an
enforcement officer under subsection (2) may be retained by the
Director‑General for a period of 6 months or such longer period as a
Magistrate’s Court may, on application by an enforcement officer,
allow.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2023 wef 01/05/2023]

 (4) If, within the period allowed under subsection (3), proceedings
are commenced against any person for an offence under this Act and
the article so seized or taken is relevant to the proceedings, that article
may be retained by the Director‑General until the conclusion of those
proceedings.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2023 wef 01/05/2023]

 (5) Where any person has been convicted of an offence under this
Act, any article seized or taken by an enforcement officer under
subsection (2) in respect of that offence may be destroyed, disposed
of or otherwise dealt with in such manner as the Director‑General
may think fit.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2023 wef 01/05/2023]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2023
          Human Cloning and

          Other Prohibited Practices

2020 Ed.              Act 2004        10

(6) Any person who —

(a) without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to comply with
     any requirement of an enforcement officer under this
     section; or

(b) gives any false or misleading information when required to
     provide any information to an enforcement officer under
     this section,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Protection from personal liability

 15. No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie personally against the
Director‑General, any enforcement officer or any other person acting
under the direction of the Director‑General for anything which is in
good faith done or intended to be done in the execution or purported
execution of this Act.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2023 wef 01/05/2023]

                                    PART 5
                             MISCELLANEOUS

Obstructing enforcement officer in execution of duties
 16. Any person who obstructs, hinders or impedes an enforcement

officer in the performance or execution of the enforcement officer’s
duty or anything which the enforcement officer is authorised,
empowered or required to do under this Act shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 17.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer of the body corporate; or

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2023
                       Human Cloning and

                 Other Prohibited Practices

11                     Act 2004                              2020 Ed.

    (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

    (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
         a partner; or

    (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of a partner,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

    (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
         an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
         its governing body; or

    (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such an
         officer or member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against
and punished accordingly.

(5) In this section —

    “officer” —

    (a) in relation to a body corporate, means a director,
         member of the committee of management, chief
         executive, manager, secretary or other similar officer
         of the body corporate and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2023
          Human Cloning and

          Other Prohibited Practices

2020 Ed.  Act 2004                                                 12

          (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
               than a partnership), means the president, the secretary
               or any member of the committee of the
               unincorporated association, or any person holding a
               position analogous to that of president, secretary or
               member of a committee and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

Offences

 18. Any person who contravenes section 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 or
13(1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 10 years or to both.

Consent to prosecute

 19. No prosecution in respect of any offence under this Act may be
instituted except by or with the consent of the Public Prosecutor.

Jurisdiction of court

 20. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment for
any such offence.

Service of documents

 21.—(1) Any notice, order or document required or authorised by
this Act to be served on any person, and any summons issued by a
court against any person in connection with any offence under this
Act may be served on the person —

       (a) by delivering it to the person or to some adult member or
            employee of the person’s family or household at the
            person’s last known place of residence;

       (b) by leaving it at the person’s usual or last known place of
            residence or business in an envelope addressed to the
            person;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2023
    Human Cloning and

    Other Prohibited Practices

13  Act 2004                                                 2020 Ed.

    (c) by sending it by registered post addressed to the person at
        the person’s usual or last known place of residence or
        business; or

    (d) in the case of an incorporated company, a partnership or a
         body of persons —

    (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other similar
        officer of the company, partnership or body of
        persons at its registered office or principal place of
        business; or

    (ii) by sending it by registered post addressed to the
         company, partnership or body of persons at its
         registered office or principal place of business.

 (2) Any notice, order, document or summons sent by registered post
to any person in accordance with subsection (1) is deemed to be duly
served on the person at the time when the notice, order, document or
summons (as the case may be) would in the ordinary course of post be
delivered.

 (3) In proving the service of any notice, order, document or
summons effected under this section, it is sufficient to prove that the
envelope containing the same was properly addressed, stamped and
posted by registered post.

Regulations

 22. The Minister may make regulations for prescribing anything
which may be prescribed under this Act and generally to give effect to
the provisions of this Act, and for carrying out the purposes and
provisions of this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2023
                 LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

                 HUMAN CLONING AND
           OTHER PROHIBITED PRACTICES

                           ACT 2004

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 35 of 2004 — Human Cloning and Other Prohibited Practices Act
                           2004

Bill           : 34/2004

First Reading  : 20 July 2004

Second and Third Readings : 1 September 2004

Commencement   : 1 October 2004

2. 2005 Revised Edition — Human Cloning and Other Prohibited Practices
                                   Act (Chapter 131B)

Operation      : 31 July 2005

3. 2020 Revised Edition — Human Cloning and
                                    Other Prohibited Practices
                                    Act 2004

Operation      : 31 December 2021

4. Act 11 of 2023 — Healthcare Services (Amendment) Act 2023
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 6/2023

First Reading  : 6 February 2023

Second and Third Readings : 6 March 2023

Commencement   : 1 May 2023

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2023
.                                 ii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2023
