THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                 BILLS OF LADING ACT 1992

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                         2020 Ed.

         Bills of Lading Act 1992

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

     1.  Shipping documents, etc., to which Act applies
     2.  Rights under shipping documents
     3.  Liabilities under shipping documents
     4.  Representations in bills of lading
     5.  Interpretation
     6.  Short title

An Act to replace the Bills of Lading Act 1855 with new provision
  with respect to bills of lading and certain other shipping documents.

                                                         [12 November 1993]

Shipping documents, etc., to which Act applies
 1.—(1) This Act applies to the following documents:
       (a) any bill of lading;

       (b) any sea waybill;
       (c) any ship’s delivery order.
 (2) References in this Act to a bill of lading —
       (a) do not include references to a document which is incapable

            of transfer either by indorsement or, as a bearer bill, by
            delivery without indorsement; but

       (b) subject to that, do include references to a received for
            shipment bill of lading.

 (3) References in this Act to a sea waybill are references to any
document which is not a bill of lading but —

       (a) is such a receipt for goods as contains or evidences a
            contract for the carriage of goods by sea; and

         1

                                                  31.12.2021
2  Bills of Lading Act 1992  2020 Ed.

       (b) identifies the person to whom delivery of the goods is to be
            made by the carrier in accordance with that contract.

 (4) References in this Act to a ship’s delivery order are references to
any document which is neither a bill of lading nor a sea waybill but
contains an undertaking which —

   (a) is given under or for the purposes of a contract for the
        carriage by sea of the goods to which the document relates,
        or of goods which include those goods; and

   (b) is an undertaking by the carrier to a person identified in the
        document to deliver the goods to which the document
        relates to that person.

Rights under shipping documents

 2.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this section, a person
who becomes —

       (a) the lawful holder of a bill of lading;

       (b) the person who (without being an original party to the
            contract of carriage) is the person to whom delivery of the
            goods to which a sea waybill relates is to be made by the
            carrier in accordance with that contract; or

       (c) the person to whom delivery of the goods to which a ship’s
            delivery order relates is to be made in accordance with the
            undertaking contained in the order,

shall (by virtue of becoming the holder of the bill or, as the case may
be, the person to whom delivery is to be made) have transferred to and
vested in him all rights of suit under the contract of carriage as if he
had been a party to that contract.

 (2) Where, when a person becomes the lawful holder of a bill of
lading, possession of the bill no longer gives a right (as against the
carrier) to possession of the goods to which the bill relates, that
person shall not have any rights transferred to him by virtue of
subsection (1) unless he becomes the holder of the bill —
2020 Ed.  Bills of Lading Act 1992                             3

(a) by virtue of a transaction effected in pursuance of any
     contractual or other arrangements made before the time
     when such a right to possession ceased to attach to
     possession of the bill; or

(b) as a result of the rejection to that person by another person
     of goods or documents delivered to the other person in
     pursuance of any such arrangements.

 (3) The rights vested in any person by virtue of the operation of
subsection (1) in relation to a ship’s delivery order —

(a) shall be so vested subject to the terms of the order; and

      (b) where the goods to which the order relates form a part only
           of the goods to which the contract of carriage relates, shall
           be confined to rights in respect of the goods to which the
           order relates.

(4) Where, in the case of any document to which this Act applies —

(a) a person with any interest or right in or in relation to goods
     to which the document relates sustains loss or damage in
     consequence of a breach of the contract of carriage; but

(b) subsection (1) operates in relation to that document so that
     rights of suit in respect of that breach are vested in another
     person,

the other person shall be entitled to exercise those rights for the
benefit of the person who sustained the loss or damage to the same
extent as they could have been exercised if they had been vested in the
person for whose benefit they are exercised.

 (5) Where rights are transferred by virtue of the operation of
subsection (1) in relation to any document, the transfer for which that
subsection provides shall extinguish any entitlement to those rights
which derives —

       (a) where that document is a bill of lading, from a person’s
            having been an original party to the contract of carriage; or

                                    31.12.2021
4  Bills of Lading Act 1992  2020 Ed.

   (b) in the case of any document to which this Act applies, from
        the previous operation of that subsection in relation to that
        document,

but the operation of that subsection shall be without prejudice to any
rights which derive from a person’s having been an original party to
the contract contained in, or evidenced by, a sea waybill and, in
relation to a ship’s delivery order, shall be without prejudice to any
rights deriving otherwise than from the previous operation of that
subsection in relation to that order.

Liabilities under shipping documents

 3.—(1) Where section 2(1) operates in relation to any document to
which this Act applies and the person in whom rights are vested by
virtue of that subsection —

       (a) takes or demands delivery from the carrier of any of the
            goods to which the document relates;

       (b) makes a claim under the contract of carriage against the
            carrier in respect of any of those goods; or

       (c) is a person who, at a time before those rights were vested in
            him, took or demanded delivery from the carrier of any of
            those goods,

that person shall (by virtue of taking or demanding delivery or
making the claim or, in a case falling within paragraph (c), of having
the rights vested in him) become subject to the same liabilities under
that contract as if he had been a party to that contract.

 (2) Where the goods to which a ship’s delivery order relates form a
part only of the goods to which the contract of carriage relates, the
liabilities to which any person is subject by virtue of the operation of
this section in relation to that order shall exclude liabilities in respect
of any goods to which the order does not relate.

 (3) This section, so far as it imposes liabilities under any contract on
any person, shall be without prejudice to the liabilities under the
contract of any person as an original party to the contract.
2020 Ed.  Bills of Lading Act 1992  5

Representations in bills of lading

4. A bill of lading which —

(a) represents goods to have been shipped on board a vessel or
     to have been received for shipment on board a vessel; and

(b) has been signed by the master of the vessel or by a person
     who was not the master but had the express, implied or
     apparent authority of the carrier to sign bills of lading,

shall, in favour of a person who has become the lawful holder of the
bill, be conclusive evidence against the carrier of the shipment of the
goods or, as the case may be, of their receipt for shipment.

Interpretation

 5.—(1) In this Act —

      “bill of lading”, “sea waybill” and “ship’s delivery order” shall
         be construed in accordance with section 1;

      “the contract of carriage” —

              (a) in relation to a bill of lading or sea waybill, means the
                   contract contained in or evidenced by that bill or
                   waybill; and

              (b) in relation to a ship’s delivery order, means the
                   contract under or for the purposes of which the
                   undertaking contained in the order is given;

      “holder”, in relation to a bill of lading, shall be construed in
         accordance with subsection (2).

                                                                                                    [43/99; 5/2021]

 (2) References in this Act to the holder of a bill of lading are
references to any of the following persons:

       (a) a person with possession of the bill who, by virtue of being
            the person identified in the bill, is the consignee of the
            goods to which the bill relates;

       (b) a person with possession of the bill as a result of the
            completion, by delivery of the bill, of any indorsement of

                                    31.12.2021
6  Bills of Lading Act 1992                                 2020 Ed.

   the bill or, in the case of a bearer bill, of any other transfer
   of the bill;

   (c) a person with possession of the bill as a result of any
       transaction by virtue of which he would have become a
       holder falling within paragraph (a) or (b) had not the
       transaction been effected at a time when possession of the
       bill no longer gave a right (as against the carrier) to
       possession of the goods to which the bill relates,

and a person shall be regarded for the purposes of this Act as having
become the lawful holder of a bill of lading wherever he has become
the holder of the bill in good faith.

 (3) References in this Act to a person’s being identified in a
document include references to his being identified by a description
which allows for the identity of the person in question to be varied, in
accordance with the terms of the document, after its issue; and the
reference in section 1(3)(b) to a document’s identifying a person shall
be construed accordingly.

 (4) Without prejudice to sections 2(2) and 4, nothing in this Act
shall preclude its operation in relation to a case where the goods to
which a document relates —

   (a) cease to exist after the issue of the document; or

   (b) cannot be identified (whether because they are mixed with
        other goods or for any other reason),

and references in this Act to the goods to which a document relates
shall be construed accordingly.

 (5) The preceding provisions of this Act shall have effect without
prejudice to the application, in relation to any case, of the rules (the
Hague-Visby Rules) which for the time being have the force of law by
virtue of section 3 of the Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1972.

Short title
 6. This Act may be cited as the Bills of Lading Act 1992.
                  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
               BILLS OF LADING ACT 1992

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. U.K. 1992, c. 50 — Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1992

Commencement          : 16 September 1992

Application           : 12 November 1993

Note: This Act (subject to the amendments in the First Schedule to the
        Application of English Law Act 1993) was declared by the
        Application of English Law Act 1993 to apply or continue to apply
        in Singapore on 12 November 1993.

2. 1994 Revised Edition — Bills of Lading Act (Chapter 384)

Operation             : 20 May 1994

Note: The Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1992 was renamed as the Bills of
        Lading Act in the 1994 Revised Edition.

3. Act 43 of 1999 — Telecommunications Act 1999
   (Amendments made by section 76(6) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 33/1999

First Reading         : 11 October 1999

Second Reading        : 23 November 1999

Notice of Amendments  : 23 November 1999

Third Reading         : 23 November 1999

Commencement          : 1 December 1999 (section 76(6))

4. Act 5 of 2021 — Electronic Transactions (Amendment) Act 2021
   (Amendments made by section 9 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 1/2021

First Reading         : 4 January 2021

Second and Third Readings : 1 February 2021

Commencement          : 19 March 2021 (section 9)

                                                             31.12.2021
                             ii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
   COMPARATIVE TABLE
BILLS OF LADING ACT 1992

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

               2020 Ed.                      1994 Ed.
—                        1—(5) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2021]
—
                            (6) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2021]

                          31.12.2021
