    Code of Practice
    on Transparency
of AI-Generated Content




    Kalina Bontcheva                  Anja Bechmann
  Working Group 1 Chair            Working Group 2 Chair
     Dino Pedreschi                Giovanni De Gregorio
Working Group 1 Vice-Chair       Working Group 2 Vice-Chair
      Christian Riess                 Madalina Botan
Working Group 1 Vice-Chair       Working Group 2 Vice-Chair




                             1
Table of Contents
Section 1: Rules for marking and detection of AI-generated and manipulated content applicable
to providers of generative AI systems (Article 50(2) and (5) AI Act) ...................................................... 5
   Objectives ........................................................................................................................................... 5
   Recitals ............................................................................................................................................... 5
   Commitments..................................................................................................................................... 7
   Commitment 1: Marking of AI-generated or Manipulated Content .................................................. 7
      Measure 1.1: Machine-readable marking techniques ................................................................... 8
      Measure 1.2: Non-removal of markings ...................................................................................... 10
      Measure 1.3: Transparency of the provenance information (optional) ....................................... 11
      Measure 1.4: Functionality for perceptible markings (optional) ................................................. 11
   Commitment 2: Detection of Markings of AI-generated or Manipulated Content.......................... 12
      Measure 2.1: Detection mechanisms for markings ..................................................................... 12
      Measure 2.2: Forensic detection mechanism (optional) ............................................................. 15
      Measure 2.3: Clear and accessible disclosure of detection results.............................................. 15
      Measure 2.4: Support literacy on AI marking and detection solutions (optional) ....................... 16
   Commitment 3: Measures to Meet the Requirements for Marking and Detection Solutions ........ 16
      Measure 3.1: Effectiveness........................................................................................................... 17
      Measure 3.2: Reliability................................................................................................................ 17
      Measure 3.3: Robustness ............................................................................................................. 17
      Measure 3.4: Interoperability ...................................................................................................... 18
      Measure 3.5: Advancing the state of the art (optional) ............................................................... 20
   Commitment 4: Testing, Verification, and Compliance .................................................................... 20
      Measure 4.1: Compliance process ............................................................................................... 20
      Measure 4.2: Testing, verification, and monitoring ..................................................................... 21
      Measure 4.3: Training ................................................................................................................... 21
      Measure 4.4: Cooperation with market surveillance authorities ................................................ 21
   Glossary ............................................................................................................................................ 22
Section 2: Rules for labelling deep fakes and AI-generated and manipulated published text
applicable to deployers of AI systems (Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act) .................................................... 26
   Objectives ......................................................................................................................................... 26
   Recitals ............................................................................................................................................. 26
   Commitments................................................................................................................................... 28
   Commitment 1: Disclosure of Deep Fakes and Published Text ........................................................ 29
      Measure 1.1: Design specifications .............................................................................................. 29
      Measure 1.2: Placement specifications........................................................................................ 31



                                                                             2
   Measure 1.3: Voluntary participation in a task force under the Code ......................................... 33
Commitment 2: Internal Processes .................................................................................................. 33
   Measure 2.1: Internal compliance process .................................................................................. 33
   Measure 2.2: Awareness and literacy .......................................................................................... 34
   Measure 2.3: Review, feedback and cooperation with authorities.............................................. 34
Commitment 3: Disclosure for Artistic, Creative and Similar Works ................................................ 35
Commitment 4: Human Review and Editorial Control for Published Text ....................................... 35
Annex ............................................................................................................................................... 37
   Annex 1: Publicly available EU icon .............................................................................................. 37




                                                                         3
           Section 1:
   Marking and detection of
AI-generated and manipulated
     content applicable to
    providers of AI systems
 (Article 50(2) and (5) AI Act)




                                                                           -

 Kalina Bontcheva        Dino Pedreschi               Christian Riess
 Working Group 1 Chair   Working Group 1 Vice-Chair   Working Group 1 Vice -Chair




                                      4
Section 1: Marking and detection of AI-generated
and manipulated content applicable to providers of
generative AI systems (Article 50(2) and (5) AI Act)
Objectives
The overarching objective of this Code of Practice (“Code”) is to improve the functioning of the
internal market, to promote the uptake of human-centric and trustworthy artificial intelligence
(“AI”) and to support innovation pursuant to Article 1(1) AI Act, while ensuring a high level of
protection of health, safety, and fundamental rights enshrined in the Charter, including
democracy, the rule of law, and environmental protection, against harmful effects of AI in the
Union.

To achieve this overarching objective, the specific objectives of this Section of the Code are:

a) to serve as a guiding document for demonstrating compliance with the obligations provided
   for in Article 50(2) and (5) AI Act, while recognising that adherence to the Code does not
   constitute conclusive evidence of compliance with these obligations;

b) to assist providers of AI systems generating synthetic audio, image, video or text content
   (“generative AI systems”) in complying with their obligations under Article 50(2) and (5) AI
   Act and

c) to enable the competent market surveillance authorities to assess such compliance in
   relation to providers who rely on the Code to demonstrate compliance with these
   obligations under Article 50(2) and (5) AI Act in a consistent, predictable and uniform
   manner across the Union.

Recitals
Whereas:

a) Trust in the information ecosystem: Signatories recognise that AI systems can generate and
   manipulate large quantities of synthetic content and that it is becoming increasingly difficult
   for humans to distinguish this content from human-authored content. Such developments
   impact the integrity of the information ecosystem as well as the trust people have in it, and
   raises new risks of misinformation, manipulation at scale, fraud, impersonation, and
   consumer deception. Signatories recognise that transparency is fundamental to fostering
   trust in and integrity of the ecosystem, and to ensuring that AI systems remain reliable and
   trustworthy.

b) Technical solutions for marking: While at the time of publication of this Code several
   techniques are readily available for marking AI-generated or manipulated audio, image,
   video, or text content, Signatories acknowledge that in most cases, in particular for content
   that can be disseminated online, no single marking technique suffices to meet the four
   requirements in Article 50(2) AI Act, namely effectiveness, interoperability, robustness, and
   reliability. In such cases, Signatories recognise that, as acknowledged in scientific reports
   and in line with the state of the art, only an appropriate combination of marking techniques


                                                   5
    and associated detection mechanisms can allow satisfaction of those requirements in a
    holistic manner, in so far as this is technically feasible, taking into account the specificities
    and limitations of the content, the cost of implementation, and the existence of relevant
    standards. The Code promotes innovation and future-proofness in a fast-evolving
    technological landscape by allowing Signatories to rely on alternative techniques, or even a
    single technique, as long as they can prove compliance with the four requirements in
    Article 50(2) AI Act and this Section of the Code, based on verifiable results and common
    benchmarks, where available.

c) Cooperation along the value chain: Signatories recognise that effective, interoperable,
   robust, and reliable technical solutions for marking and detection require investment of
   time and resources. Signatories therefore acknowledge the need for practical arrangements
   to make detection solutions accessible, as appropriate, and for facilitating cooperation with
   other actors along the value chain to enable the public to effectively identify AI-generated
   or manipulated content. Signatories who are providers of generative AI models play an
   important role in this value chain and are therefore encouraged to facilitate compliance for
   downstream providers of generative AI systems built on those models.

d) Advancing innovation in marking techniques and detection mechanisms: Signatories
   acknowledge that determining the most effective, robust, reliable, and interoperable
   technical methods for marking and detection remains an evolving challenge. Signatories
   recognise that this Section of the Code promotes innovation in various ways and encourages
   advancing the state of the art in AI transparency techniques and related processes and
   measures. For instance, the Code allows (i) innovative techniques for AI transparency, (ii)
   new means to facilitate interoperability among different marking techniques and associated
   detection mechanisms, and (iii) the development of benchmarks to evaluate the
   performances of the technical solutions implemented by providers of generative AI systems.
   Signatories are therefore encouraged to invest time and resources, as appropriate, to
   contribute to the advancement of the state of the art.

e) Cooperation with other stakeholders: Signatories recognise the advantages of
   collaborative efficiency, for example through sharing methods and/or infrastructure and
   relying on open standards and marking techniques implemented at the model level or
   provided by other third parties. Signatories further recognise the importance of enabling
   relevant third parties and end-users to detect marked content, and of engaging expert or
   lay representatives of civil society, academia, and other relevant stakeholders in
   understanding technical solutions for AI transparency. Signatories recognise that such
   cooperation may involve providing the necessary support for the smooth integration of
   third-party models and marking solutions into the AI system’s inference process, and
   entering into agreements to share information relevant to technical solutions, while
   ensuring proportionate protection of sensitive information and compliance with applicable
   Union law. Signatories also acknowledge that end users’ feedback on their implementation
   of marking and detection techniques is a valuable source of information in view of
   continuously improving its implementation. Signatories further recognise the importance
   of cooperating with market surveillance authorities and of fostering collaboration between
   providers of generative AI systems and models, deployers and other users of generative AI
   systems, online platforms, search engines, researchers, civil society and regulatory bodies
   to address emerging challenges and opportunities in transparency of AI-generated or
   manipulated content.



                                                    6
f)   Promoting standardisation: Signatories recognise the value of open standards to facilitate
     interoperability and lower the cost of marking techniques and associated detection
     mechanisms for AI transparency. They recognise that further efforts will be required for
     such standards to emerge from international and European standard-setting organisations,
     considering the implementation challenges and the fast-evolving field. Signatories are
     encouraged to participate in relevant standardisation activities in order to accelerate the
     consolidation of marking techniques and associated detection mechanisms and their
     interoperability. In particular, Signatories recognise that metadata marking standards need
     to be further elaborated to provide richer information for AI transparency, as well as
     recognising the need for relevant watermarking standards both at technology and interface
     levels.

g) Proportionality for Small and medium enterprises (“SMEs”) and small mid-cap enterprises
   (“SMCs”): To account for differences between providers of generative AI systems regarding
   their size and capacity, simplified ways of compliance for SMEs and SMCs, including
   startups, should be possible, in a proportionate manner.

Commitments
This Section of the Code applies to Signatories who are providers of generative AI systems falling
within Article 2 and Article 50(2) AI Act, taking into account the scope of the legal obligations
and relevant exceptions, as applicable.

Without prejudice to the primary responsibility of providers of generative AI systems under
Article 50(2) AI Act, providers of generative AI models that are placed on the Union market
independently from AI systems and third-party providers of marking and detection solutions
may also, on a voluntary basis, adhere to the Code to demonstrate that their marking and
detection solutions comply with the requirements of Article 50(2) and (5) AI Act and this Section
of the Code, with a view to facilitating compliance by downstream providers of AI systems built
on those models and/or using third parties’ marking and detection solutions. In such cases, the
commitments and the measures of this Section of the Code shall be understood as applying to
the Signatory’s generative AI model and/or marking and detection solution as appropriate.

In this Section, the terms “will”, “encouraged” and “may” should be interpreted in the following
way:

     1. ‘will’ is used for mandatory measures under the Code that need to be met for the
        Signatory to be compliant with Article 50(2) and (5) AI Act, and for which compliance
        will be monitored by competent market surveillance authorities;
     2. ‘encouraged’ is used for optional measures under the Code that are not legally required
        and are purely voluntary, but are nevertheless recommended;
     3. ‘may’ is used for optional measures under the Code that are not legally required and
        are purely voluntary or provide providers with flexibility on how to implement the
        respective measure or commitment.

Commitment 1: Marking of AI-generated or Manipulated
Content
LEGAL TEXT: Article 50(2) and recitals 133 and 135 AI Act



                                                   7
2. Providers of AI systems, including general-purpose AI systems, generating synthetic audio,
image, video or text content, shall ensure that the outputs of the AI system are marked in a
machine-readable format and detectable as artificially generated or manipulated. Providers
shall ensure their technical solutions are effective, interoperable, robust and reliable as far as
this is technically feasible, taking into account the specificities and limitations of various types
of content, the costs of implementation and the generally acknowledged state of the art, as may
be reflected in relevant technical standards.

In order to fulfil their obligation under Article 50(2) AI Act to mark in a machine-readable manner
the outputs of generative AI systems, including general-purpose AI systems, Signatories commit
to implement a marking solution with regard to audio, image, video or text content, or any
combination thereof, generated or manipulated by the AI system(s) which they place on the
market or put into service in the Union.
In order to fulfil this Commitment, Signatories commit to implement the following Measures as
applicable to the type(s) of content generated or manipulated by their AI system(s).

Measure 1.1: Machine-readable marking techniques
Signatories will implement a marking solution that consists of at least one machine-readable
marking technique, as detailed below, which, in conjunction with their respective detection
mechanism, meets the level of effectiveness, reliability, robustness, and interoperability
required by Article 50(2) AI Act and Commitment 3 of the Code.
So long as no single marking technique can, under the state of the art, ensure by itself
compliance with the four requirements in Article 50(2) AI Act of effectiveness, interoperability,
robustness, and reliability for audio, images, video, and containerised text, in particular for
content that can be disseminated online, Signatories will implement a multi-layered marking
approach to ensure that the outputs of their generative AI systems are marked with at least two
layers of machine-readable marking, as specified in Sub-measures 1.1.1 and 1.1.2 below.
To enable a proportionate implementation of the above requirements, a single layer of marking
will be considered sufficient in specific cases where a generative AI system is embedded in
physical products capable of generating synthetic outputs in a technically controlled and closed
environment mainly instructive in nature. This applies to the extent effective technical measures
are embedded in the product to prevent the output from leaving the environment of the
product, for example by being captured or exported and disseminated externally. Moreover,
given that free-form text cannot transport metadata, a single-layer of marking as described in
Sub-measure 1.1.2 is considered sufficient to comply with the requirements of Article 50(2) AI
Act for this specific type of content.
In the future, Signatories will also be able to demonstrate compliance with Article 50(2) AI Act
through the use of alternative marking technique(s) (possibly a single marking technique),
provided that they can prove to the competent market surveillance authorities, based on
recognised performance evaluation methods and benchmarks, that their technique(s) achieve
at least the same, if not superior, level of robustness, reliability, effectiveness, and
interoperability, as required by Article 50(2) AI Act and Commitment 3 of the Code. Pending the
emergence of recognised performance evaluation methods and benchmarks, and as specified
in Measure 4.2, Signatories may demonstrate compliance through documented internal testing
against the requirements in Commitment 3, subject to review by the competent market
surveillance authorities.



                                                    8
The marking techniques may be implemented at different stages of the value chain (e.g., by the
provider of the AI system itself or by an upstream model provider) and may also be provided by
third parties (in particular, technology providers specialised in marking techniques and detection
mechanisms for AI transparency). Signatories may rely on those third-party technical solutions
without prejudice to the Signatories’ own responsibility under the AI Act and the Code to ensure
that the outputs of their AI systems are suitably and compliantly marked.

Sub-measure 1.1.1: Digitally signed metadata
If content is generated, manipulated or exported in a data format that supports attaching
metadata (e.g., an audio, image, video, or containerised text), Signatories will record information
in the metadata on whether the content is AI-generated or manipulated.
All recorded information will be digitally signed and time-stamped (on systems where time
information is available) in a secure and tamper-evident manner. Signatories will adopt means
for ensuring the secure usage of the signing certificates and the confidentiality of the associated
private keys, except in circumstances where the deployment context does not permit the secure
handling or provisioning of the key, for example in a local deployment scenario.
Signatories are encouraged to implement richer metadata in accordance with Measure 1.3., ,
without including privacy-sensitive or business-sensitive information. In cases where such
information is strictly necessary or inserted upon request of an end-user, it will be compliant
with applicable EU data protection law and is encouraged to be placed in a metadata
placeholder separate from the AI transparency metadata.

Sub-measure 1.1.2: Imperceptible watermarking
Signatories will ensure that AI-generated or manipulated content is marked with an
imperceptible watermark, with the exception of very short text. For free-form text longer than
200 tokens, watermarking still needs to be applied, even though it may have lower reliability
compared to that of watermarking very long text. To compensate for the potential lower
reliability of watermarking for free-form text, access to the corresponding detection solution
may be restricted to verified expert users as detailed in Sub-measure 2.1.2.
The imperceptible watermark will be embedded within the content in a manner that is difficult
for it to be separated from the content. The watermark is intended to serve as a robust
mechanism to complement the digitally signed metadata under Sub-measure 1.1.1.
The state of the art provides several strategies to embed watermarks in AI-generated or
manipulated content, for instance, applying the watermarking technique once the content has
been generated or manipulated (i.e. ‘post-hoc watermarking’) or having the watermark
introduced during the inference operation of the generative AI system (i.e. ‘model
watermarking’). Signatories who provide generative AI models are encouraged to implement
watermarking at the model level and to enable the smooth integration of the watermarking at
the AI system’s inference process, to facilitate compliance of downstream providers of
generative AI systems built on those models, in particular in a manner that helps these
downstream providers meet the quality requirements specified in Article 50(2) AI Act and in
Commitment 3 and that enables them to demonstrate compliance in line with Commitment 4.

Sub-measure 1.1.3: Fingerprinting or logging (optional)
Where appropriate and taking into account potential trade-offs related to privacy and security,
as well as scalability challenges and costs, Signatories may implement as an optional
supplementary measure fingerprinting or logging solutions for AI-generated or manipulated


                                                   9
content which allow for checking whether content has been generated or manipulated by their
AI system. For example, direct logging may be appropriate for text content, whereas
fingerprinting approaches may be preferable for audio and visual content.
The use of such techniques may be a supplementary solution to meet the quality requirements
specified in Article 50(2) AI Act and in Commitment 3 or to help reduce the cost of the detection
mechanism outlined in Commitment 2. However, relying on fingerprinting or logging alone is
not considered sufficient to meet the quality requirements specified in Article 50(2) AI Act and
in Commitment 3.
Where Signatories implement fingerprinting or logging, they will ensure that it is limited to the
output data and that it is implemented in a secure and privacy-preserving manner, in compliance
with EU data protection law and respect for media freedom, editorial independence and
journalistic source protection obligations. Deployers and other users of the generative AI
systems will be given access to the logging policies and granted control over what is logged and
how data is stored, accessed and how long it is retained, with clear procedures for limited
retention periods, access controls, security and other safeguards for data minimisation, as well
as secure and immediate deletion of logs containing output data after its intended purpose has
been fulfilled.
This Sub-measure is confined to the Signatory’s own design and implementation of the AI system
and shall in no way be interpreted as creating a general commitment to log, monitor, or retain
prompts for the AI-generated or manipulated content or for user interactions.

Measure 1.2: Non-removal of markings
Without prejudice to the robustness requirement in Commitment 3, Signatories will make best
efforts to preserve metadata markings on input data and content generated or manipulated by
their AI system by applying the following cumulative measures:

a) Signatories will, to the extent technically feasible and recognisable as per open standards,
   retain, and abstain from intentionally altering or removing, existing metadata markings,
   where such content is used as input and subsequently transformed by their AI system into
   an output. This does not affect good faith, legitimate processing where the modification,
   transformation or replacement of existing metadata is necessary to maintain accurate and
   functional information following downstream processing or specific legitimate processing,
   such as for security audits and research purposes.
b) While Signatories recognise that downstream compliance and enforcement cannot be
   guaranteed, they will nevertheless include in the acceptable use policy, terms and
   conditions or the documentation accompanying their generative AI system a prohibition of
   the intentional removal of or tampering with metadata markings by deployers or any other
   third party. Exceptions to such a prohibition are the legitimate purposes referred to in point
   a). For AI systems and models provided under free and open-source licenses, it is sufficient
   for Signatories to alert users to this best practice in the documentation accompanying the
   AI system or model, without prejudice to the free and open-source nature of the license.
Measures specified in point a) above do not imply the responsibility of the Signatory for third-
party metadata markings, nor for compliance of third parties with the conditions specified in
point b).




                                                 10
Furthermore, Signatories will neither place or make available on the market, nor promote or
advertise the use of tools whose purpose is to circumvent the machine-readable markings
added to the AI-generated or manipulated content for transparency.
Signatories who operate an online platform or search engine, or who otherwise disseminate
content to the public, are encouraged to ensure that the online platform or the search engine
preserves metadata markings for AI-generated or manipulated content.

Measure 1.3: Transparency of the provenance information (optional)
Signatories are encouraged to incorporate richer information in the metadata pursuant to
Measure 1.1.1, to provide additional context and thereby contribute to increased integrity and
trust in the information ecosystem. In particular, Signatories are encouraged to consider relevant
standards to provide further information about the origin of AI-generated or manipulated
content across workflows, where technically feasible.
Signatories are encouraged to add or record relevant content provenance information within
content generated or manipulated by their AI systems, in particular the name of the AI system,
the company name of the AI provider, and a timestamp indicating when the content was
generated or manipulated. Additionally, Signatories may also include the underlying AI model
identifier and version number.
For AI-manipulated content, Signatories are encouraged to record information about the type
of operations performed by their AI system to modify the content (e.g., object removal).
Multiple discrete operations carried out by the AI system are recommended to be encoded into
a single metadata marker to limit complexity and reduce burden.

Measure 1.4: Functionality for perceptible markings (optional)
In order to facilitate compliance of deployers of generative AI systems with their obligation to
disclose deep fakes and AI-generated or manipulated published text pursuant to Article 50(4) AI
Act, Signatories who are providers of generative AI systems that are capable of generating or
manipulating such content are encouraged to provide an optional functionality in their system's
interface and to implement an integrated option that allows deployers and other users to
directly apply at their own discretion – upon generation of the output – a perceptible label in
consistency with the Commitments and Measures in Section 2 of the Code.
Signatories are also encouraged to follow harmonised UX standards, to the extent possible, in
an interoperable manner with existing standardised content management systems and
workflows of online platforms and media publishers.
Signatories are further encouraged to implement other supporting measures for displaying
labels and metadata that enable deployers and providers of online platforms, search engines
and websites to implement display practices and policies that are appropriate for their use
cases.
This measure is without prejudice to the responsibility of deployers who remain responsible for
the disclosure of deep fakes and AI-generated or manipulated published text in a clear and
distinguishable manner in accordance with Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act.




                                                  11
Commitment 2: Detection of Markings of AI-generated or
Manipulated Content
LEGAL TEXT: Article 50(2) and 50(5) and recitals 133 and 135 AI Act
2. Providers of AI systems, including general-purpose AI systems, generating synthetic audio,
image, video or text content, shall ensure that the outputs of the AI system are […] detectable
as artificially generated or manipulated.
5. The information referred to in paragraphs 1 to 4 shall be provided to the natural persons
concerned in a clear and distinguishable manner at the latest at the time of the first interaction
or exposure. The information shall conform to the applicable accessibility requirements.


In order to fulfil their obligations under Article 50(2) and (5) AI Act to ensure that the outputs of
their AI system(s) are detectable as AI-generated or manipulated, Signatories commit to provide
the means to enable the detection of the machine-readable markings present in audio, image,
video or text content, or a combination thereof, as generated or manipulated by their AI system.
Signatories also commit to ensure that the detection result is provided to the natural persons
concerned in a clear, distinguishable and accessible manner.
In order to fulfil this Commitment, Signatories commit to implement the following Measures, as
applicable to the type(s) of content generated or manipulated by their AI system(s).

Measure 2.1: Detection mechanisms for markings
Signatories will make available a detection solution, composed of one or more detection
mechanisms, to enable deployers, users of their generative AI system, third-party integrators,
end-users exposed to the content, and other legitimate parties (such as competent authorities,
independent researchers, civil society and media organisations) to verify whether content has
been generated or manipulated by their AI system based on the marking technique(s)
implemented pursuant to Commitment 1. Signatories will ensure that the detection solution, in
conjunction with the associated marking solution, meets the level of effectiveness,
interoperability, robustness, and reliability required by Article 50(2) AI Act, Commitment 3 of
the Code, and the following Sub-measures.

Sub-measure 2.1.1. Making the detection solution available
The detection solution may be made available in the Union as one or more of the following: (i)
a public, ideally standardised, specification allowing any third party to implement a detection
mechanism; (ii) a piece of software (e.g., a standalone executable or library); (iii) a cloud-based
service accessible to users in the Union through an API. When providing a public specification
under point (i), Signatories are encouraged to provide a reference implementation. When
providing a piece of software under point (ii), Signatories are encouraged to ensure that the
version is portable on most operating systems (including, where technically feasible, mobile
phone systems) and that the hardware requirements are limited, if any at all, to facilitate the
local execution of the detection mechanism(s) on any general-purpose device.
Signatories will ensure that their detection solution includes a detection mechanism for each
marking technique implemented in their generative AI system pursuant to Commitment 1.
Similarly to the marking techniques in Measure 1.1, Signatories may rely on shared or third-
party detection mechanisms, for instance provided by providers of AI models that apply


                                                    12
markings at the model level or by third-party technology providers specialised in transparency
marking techniques and detection mechanisms. Such reliance is without prejudice to the
Signatories’ own responsibility to ensure compliance with Article 50(2) and (5) AI Act and with
this Section of the Code. In order to facilitate compliance by downstream providers of
generative AI systems, Signatories who are also providers of generative AI models are
encouraged to provide detection mechanisms for the content generated or manipulated by
their models prior to the model’s placement on the market.
Signatories will make the detection solution available free of charge. Signatories with fewer than
1,000,000 monthly users of their generative AI system, whose detection solution incurs
substantial operational costs (in particular when it is provided for detection of watermarks as a
cloud-based service), may charge a fee for the use of their detection solution (which will be
reasonable, fair and proportionate to the overall operational costs of that solution) in cases
where requests from a single user exceed a reasonable threshold due to large volume of
requests. All Signatories will always provide free access to their detection solution, without any
restriction on the volume of requests, to competent market surveillance authorities and other
regulators, law enforcement authorities, media, fact-checkers, trusted flaggers, independent
researchers, educational and research institutions, and civil society organisations.
Signatories are encouraged to collaborate with relevant actors within the ecosystem to make
their detection solution directly available within distribution and communication platforms.

Sub-measure 2.1.2: Access to the detection solution
Signatories will ensure access to their detection solution through a user interface appropriate
for the audience of end-users that may eventually be exposed to the content generated or
manipulated by their AI system. Where the general public may be exposed to the AI-generated
or manipulated content, the detection solution will accordingly be made available to the general
public. However, where there are safeguards to ensure that only a limited number of natural
persons will be exposed to the AI-generated or manipulated content (e.g., AI systems in
professional settings), and where there are effective safeguards to prevent further
dissemination of the content to the general public, access to the detection solution may be
restricted to those natural persons.
In their detection solution, Signatories may restrict access to detection mechanisms associated
to watermarking techniques for free-form text to the extent that they have a lower level of
reliability and robustness and that they may produce misleading or low-confidence results.
However, the results of such detection mechanisms may still provide valuable information to
verified expert end-users with a legitimate need, including competent market surveillance
authorities, other regulators, law enforcement authorities, media, fact-checkers, trusted
flaggers, independent researchers, educational and research organisations, and civil society
organisations. Therefore, Signatories will ensure that access for these expert end-users is
granted subject to appropriate access controls and safeguards. Any restriction to the access will
be limited in time until more reliable and robust detection mechanisms have emerged and have
been adopted as the state of the art for detection mechanisms for the watermarking of free-
form text evolves.
Signatories will ensure that the detection results by their detection solution are provided in
accordance with Measure 2.3 below.
Moreover, Signatories will ensure that the detection result of specific content submitted for
detection can be downloaded upon request in a digitally signed format, including at least a hash



                                                  13
of the content submitted for detection, a URL or other identifier of the detection solution, and
a timestamp.

Sub-measure 2.1.3: Personal data protection, privacy and security
Signatories will ensure that the detection is compliant with EU privacy and data protection law.
Without prejudice to applicable EU law, including EU privacy and data protection law, for any
detection solution provided as a software or a service (fully or in part) that requires uploading
content, Signatories will ensure:
(a) That the content submitted for detection is processed as privacy sensitive and processed in
    compliance with EU privacy and data protection law.
(b) The confidentiality and integrity of the content, while in transit and at rest.
(c) Data minimisation in the provision of the detection service, namely that the detection
    service does not collect, retain, or otherwise process personal data from users of the
    detection solution, or content submitted to it, beyond what is necessary to deliver the
    detection functions, except where necessary and based on a valid legal basis for security
    and abuse prevention, for ensuring the detection solution works effectively, opt-in user
    feedback or service improvement based on user preferences. Where technically feasible,
    Signatories are encouraged to apply privacy-preserving technologies and only require the
    uploading of a derivative of the content that does not give access to the semantics of the
    content.
(d) That the content submitted for detection is processed for the sole purpose of detecting the
    markings and is not processed for any other purpose except where necessary for the other
    purposes specified in point (c) above.
(e) That the content is stored only for the duration of the detection and is permanently deleted
    immediately thereafter (i.e. with a ‘zero retention’ policy) provided that minimal data (such
    as traffic logs) may be retained for a limited period on a valid legal basis solely to ensure
    security and prevent abuse. In particular, Signatories will not retain a verbatim copy of the
    content and will delete it immediately after the detection.
(f) That relevant security safeguards, appropriate to the risk, are in place to ensure the ongoing
    confidentiality, integrity, availability, and resilience of the detection service.
(g) Compliance with all other applicable requirements under EU privacy and data protection
    law, including the requirements governing transfers of personal data to third countries
    under EU data protection law.
(h) That best practices in cybersecurity are implemented to protect access to the detection
    solution in cases where uncontrolled access to the detection solution may compromise the
    security of the underlying marking techniques and detection mechanisms.

Sub-measure 2.1.4: Retirement of a detection solution
Signatories are entitled to retire a detection solution as long as it is replaced by an alternative
detection solution. Signatories will ensure that any such alternative detection solution yields
the same or better detection capabilities and is backward compatible, enabling the detection of
previously marked content.
Where a Signatory has developed its own detection solution and stops providing that solution
without replacement for any reason (e.g., business closure), it will make that solution available



                                                   14
to the competent market surveillance authorities, subject to confidentiality and security
safeguards to enable them to detect, where necessary, legacy content generated or
manipulated by their AI system.

Measure 2.2: Forensic detection mechanism (optional)
To complement the marking techniques specified in Commitment 1 and contingent upon their
capacities, Signatories may include as part of their detection solution, as an additional optional
measure, forensic detection mechanism to detect content generated or manipulated by their AI
system or underlying model for which marking has been stripped. Where Signatories implement
such a forensic detection mechanism, they will ensure that the privacy and security
requirements as specified in Sub-measure 2.1.3 are satisfied and that the disclosure of the
detection result is clear and accessible as specified in Measure 2.3, and make best efforts to
ensure that their forensic detection mechanism aligns with the state of the art as specified in
Commitment 3.
At the time of publication of the Code, forensic detection mechanisms were not deemed mature
enough to comply with the quality requirements set in Article 50(2) AI Act and in
Commitment 3. As long as no better forensic detection mechanism has emerged under the state
of the art, Signatories who implement forensic detection mechanisms as an optional measure
may restrict access to the detection results provided by such forensic detection mechanisms to
verified expert users, in line with the exception for detection mechanisms for free-form text
watermarking described in Sub-measure 2.1.2.

Measure 2.3: Clear and accessible disclosure of detection results
In order to fulfil their obligation under Article 50(5) AI Act, Signatories will ensure that the
detection results provided by their detection solution are presented in a way that is clear and
easily comprehensible to natural persons exposed to the content generated or manipulated by
their AI system and who want to verify its origin.
Signatories will ensure that detection results indicate whether they are based on a metadata
marking, a watermark marking, forensic detection or other techniques, to the extent technically
feasible.
Where additional information is available in the watermark or in the metadata, Signatories will
incorporate such information into the detection results. Signatories may also include further
information within detection results, such as the proportion of the content that has been
generated or manipulated by their AI system and/or the localisation of the AI changes in the
content. For detailed detection results, Signatories are encouraged to consider tiered access to
avoid overwhelming end-users with possibly confusing information, especially when the end-
user of the detection solution is a member of the general public lacking specialised knowledge.
Where applicable, Signatories will ensure that human interfaces used to present detection
results are accessible to persons with disabilities in compliance with applicable accessibility
requirements under Union law, in particular those laid down in Directive (EU) 2019/882 (the
European Accessibility Act) and Directive (EU) 2016/2102 (the Web Accessibility Directive).
Signatories are encouraged to implement any available relevant standard, including but not
limited to the harmonised standard ETSI EN 301 549 “Accessibility requirements for ICT
products and services”, and WCAG 2.1 Level AA “Web Content Accessibility Guidelines”.




                                                  15
Measure 2.4: Support literacy on AI marking and detection solutions
(optional)
Signatories are encouraged to ensure that documentation and other relevant information
(excluding business confidential information and trade secrets) is provided to deployers and
other expert users to support them in making informed decisions on what marking and
associated detection solutions they may use, including helping them to understand how to
access detection solutions, how to perform detections, and how to interpret detection results.
In addition to deployer-focused materials, Signatories are also encouraged to ensure that end-
user literacy resources are provided, as appropriate, and calibrated to laypersons and end-user
needs, including where the AI systems serve populations with lower AI literacy or in sensitive
contexts (e.g. educational contexts or contexts involving young or elderly users). These
resources may be developed by the Signatories themselves or created jointly through efforts
involving other providers or by organisations or initiatives they belong to.
This measure will be implemented in a proportionate manner, taking into account the level of
awareness of the deployers and other users of the generative AI system and end-users exposed
to the content, and the size and resources of the AI system provider, in particular with regard to
SMEs and SMCs.
Signatories are encouraged to collaborate with academia, civil society, media and other relevant
organisations to promote literacy and awareness regarding AI transparency, and to support EU-
level initiatives to foster a consistent understanding of provenance and detection across
Member States.

Commitment 3: Measures to Meet the Requirements for
Marking and Detection Solutions
LEGAL TEXT: Article 50(2) and recital 133 AI Act


2. […] Providers shall ensure their technical solutions are effective, interoperable, robust and
reliable as far as this is technically feasible, taking into account the specificities and limitations
of various types of content, the costs of implementation and the generally acknowledged state
of the art, as may be reflected in relevant technical standards.


In order to fulfil their obligation under Article 50(2) AI Act to ensure the employed technical
solutions for marking and detection of AI-generated or manipulated content are effective,
interoperable, robust and reliable, as far as this is technically feasible and taking into account
the specificities and limitations of various types of content, the costs of implementation and the
generally acknowledged state of the art, Signatories commit to ensure that their marking and
detection solutions comply with the quality requirements described in the following measures,
holistically across all marking techniques employed rather than for each technique individually.
Signatories commit to assess and demonstrate compliance with the requirements in accordance
with the testing, verification, and compliance processes specified in Commitment 4 prior to
placing their generative AI system on the market or putting it into service, and throughout its
lifecycle.
Signatories commit to strive to achieve the best possible balance between effectiveness,
interoperability, robustness and reliability of the marking and detection solutions as described
in Measures 3.1 to 3.4 below. Operational constraints may impose limitations on computational


                                                    16
time and resources, costs of implementation, as well as on scalability to very large or very small
content.

Measure 3.1: Effectiveness
Signatories will implement technical marking and detection solutions which, in conjunction, are
fit-for-purpose and capable of enabling natural persons to distinguish content generated or
manipulated by their AI system, thus contributing to the trust and integrity of the information
ecosystem.
Those solutions will be considered effective when natural persons can access and understand
the meaning of the detection results. There is no quantitative evaluation metric linked to this
Measure; instead, it requires a user-based assessment of the detection functionality. Signatories
are encouraged to publish specifications to guide downstream stakeholders on how to display
the detection information output by their detection solution. Signatories may conduct relevant
panel studies, to the extent relevant to their application use case, to check how well natural
persons exposed to the detection results understand them.

Measure 3.2: Reliability
Signatories will implement marking and detection solutions which, in conjunction, achieve a high
level of reliability in different expected contexts and across use cases, to the extent technically
feasible and in alignment with the state of the art.
Reliability refers to the capability of the marking and detection solutions to accurately identify
and distinguish the origin of AI-generated or manipulated content from other content. The
reliability assessment consists of two components: (i) how accurate the detection solution is
with regard to detecting the marking in nominal conditions where there is no alteration to the
content, and (ii) how the accuracy of the marking and detection solutions varies with respect to
the length, size, diversity, and semantics of the content.
Signatories will measure the accuracy of the detection of AI-generated or manipulated content
by using relevant metrics for the type of markings, such as the error rate of the detection. Low
error rates will be demonstrated on a variety of samples, including both content generated or
manipulated by their AI system with their own marking and other content (possibly including
content generated or manipulated by other AI systems). The data for the assessment of
reliability shall, to the extent possible, not have been used during the training and development
of the AI system.
Signatories will ensure these accuracy measurements are performed and reported with content
intended to be generated or manipulated by the AI system of various length, size, diversity, and
semantics, in order to demonstrate that the performance of the implemented marking and
detection solutions generalises across diverse contexts and use cases.

Measure 3.3: Robustness
Signatories will implement marking and detection solutions which, together, maintain intended
performance levels under varying conditions, covering both common alterations and adversarial
attacks, to the extent technically feasible, and in alignment with the state of the art. This
requirement does not apply to AI systems that are exceptionally subject only to one layer of
metadata marking as specified in Measure 1.1.




                                                   17
First, Signatories will ensure their marking and detection solutions are robust to typical
processing operations that may introduce varying degrees of distortion based on underlying
parameter settings. Typical processing operations include:
a) in-place modifications, e.g. noise addition / removal, filtering, (re)compression,
   screenshot / screencasting, voice enhancement, lexical substitution, homoglyphs, change
   of file format, etc;
b) desynchronisation mechanisms, e.g. mirroring, cropping, up/downscaling, rotation, aspect
   ratio change, pitch shifting, time stretching, characters insertion / deletion, paraphrasing,
   translation cycles, etc;
c) survival of the analogue hole, e.g. print-and-scan (and optical character recognition), audio
   playback and recording, screen camcording, etc.
Moreover, Signatories will ensure that detection is robust to localised changes to the content,
for example if users decide to blur faces for privacy reasons prior to submission of the content
to the detection solution of the Signatory.
Second, Signatories will ensure that adversarial robustness of their marking and detection
solutions is assessed in terms of resilience to malicious behaviour such as copying, removal,
regeneration, and modification attacks on the markings. Signatories will measure robustness to
malicious behaviour by the ability of the marking and detection solutions to verify marking
integrity, i.e. whether a mark has been tampered with or modified to misrepresent the origin of
the content. Signatories will choose the considered malicious behaviour as plausible real-world
threats based on the type of content, the type of mark and the context of deployment and
dissemination of the content. Signatories are encouraged to apply standard cybersecurity
practices, such as rate limits, to prevent and counteract malicious use and attacks against their
marking and detection solutions. Signatories are encouraged to frequently update their threat
assessment to keep up to date with changes in the threat landscape.
To assess the robustness to typical processing operations and malicious behaviour, Signatories
will use the same performance metrics as for the reliability requirement in Measure 3.2.

Measure 3.4: Interoperability
Signatories will implement marking and detection solutions that operate seamlessly across
multiple systems, actors, contexts and technical implementations to enable detection of AI-
generated or manipulated content, regardless of the marking technique deployed in different
AI systems, to the extent technically feasible.
At the time of publication of this Code, relevant interoperability standards and/or best practices
are yet to be developed, except for digitally signed metadata. Therefore, a staged
implementation of interoperability requirements will be adopted as follows.
In the initial stage as of the entry into application of Article 50(2) AI Act, Signatories will:
(a) adopt relevant established standards or best practices to implement metadata marking and
    detection, thereby enabling open detection of such markings;
(b) provide public information to the Commission and relevant stakeholders on how to
    integrate and access detection solutions for the other type(s) of marking technique(s) that
    they have implemented in their AI system. To facilitate dissemination of such information,
    Signatories are encouraged to provide relevant information on their websites and to
    populate publicly available registries that may be created to streamline integrations.


                                                     18
(c) work towards a minimum level of interoperability among detection solutions for
    watermarking that reduce burden and costs for the Signatories, while ensuring a more
    seamless access for end-users. More specifically, Signatories will implement an
    interoperability solution for their detection mechanisms by 2 February 2027 by
    implementing one or more of the following:
     i)    a publicly available interoperable industry standard access method that enables
           detection queries to be routed to relevant detection mechanisms, and detection
           results to be interpreted by shared or provider-agnostic detection solutions
           interacting with endpoints implementing such API, including detection solutions that
           support public signposts but do not necessarily require them. Signatories who
           implement this approach shall not create unnecessary traffic to other services where
           such traffic can be avoided by directly reading out a known interoperability solution
           (like a signpost);
    ii)    a publicly readable signpost or other interoperable mechanism in the AI-generated
           or manipulated content that will signal to the public which detection solution to use
           without having to run all the detection solutions of providers of AI systems.
           Signatories will take reasonable steps to ensure that the detection mechanism(s)
           associated to their signpost marking technique(s) or other interoperability solution
           are made available to the Commission and relevant stakeholders so that they can be
           integrated in their detection workflows;
   iii)    a shared provider detection solution by a consortium of Signatories that is accessible
           and inclusive for any other Signatory to join, including SMEs and SMCs, subject to
           appropriate safeguards for the protection of confidential technical information. Any
           such aggregated detection solution shall be agnostic to the Signatories participating
           in the consortium, capable of detecting outputs generated or manipulated by their
           generative AI systems, and able to work in an interoperable manner with other
           detection solutions;
   iv)     another interoperability solution that achieves interoperability between Signatories
           comparable to the solutions above.
    The interoperability solution will be implemented in a manner that is not detrimental to
    the robustness of other embedded watermarks and that includes safeguards against
    misuse risks creation.
(d) To advance towards full interoperability, contingent upon their resources and capacities,
    Signatories will cooperate in good faith with the Commission and relevant stakeholders
    towards the development of improved and state of the art interoperability solutions and
    interoperability standards. In particular, Signatories are encouraged to participate in the task
    force described in Measure 3.5. Signatories are also encouraged to join and/or support
    international and European standardisation bodies, as well as consortia initiatives focused
    on the development of open content marking and detection standards that help to
    operationalise the measures envisaged in this Section of the Code.
In these subsequent stages, Signatories commit to implement those standards in a timely
manner as they emerge, to the extent technically feasible and needed for the application use
case of their AI systems, in order to continue to be compliant with the requirement for
interoperability under Article 50(2) AI Act.




                                                   19
Measure 3.5: Advancing the state of the art (optional)
Contingent upon their capacity and resources, Signatories are encouraged to invest in scientific
research and development and collaborate with competent authorities, researchers, civil
society organisations and other relevant stakeholders to advance the state of the art in marking
techniques and detection mechanisms for AI-generated and manipulated content.

Such advances of the state of the art comprise, inter alia:

a) advancing existing marking techniques and detection mechanisms with regard to the
   achievable level of effectiveness, reliability, robustness, and interoperability;

b) advancing existing interoperability solutions towards higher degree of interoperability;

c) contributing to and promoting the standardisation of the interfaces of marking and
   detection solutions, and the techniques themselves when possible;

d) developing new marking or detection solutions that are agnostic to the AI provider, for
   instance detection mechanism(s) that are operational with regard to the quality
   requirements above across multiple AI systems, including publicly available detection
   solutions that can be run locally, without reliance on third-party detection services;

e) establishing industry best practices and/or public benchmarks for evaluating marking and
   detection solutions and the underlying techniques, including contributing to the creation
   of reference datasets;

f)   organising and/or participating in red-teaming exercises to assess the limits of state-of-the-
     art marking and detection solutions, and the underlying techniques, and to identify new
     deficiencies.

Finally, Signatories are encouraged to actively participate in the taskforce that will be set up
under the Code to facilitate the activities mentioned above, the sharing of good practices,
consistency in the implementation of the Measures under the Code, and collaboration between
Signatories, other actors in the value chain and relevant stakeholders through regular meetings.

Commitment 4: Testing, Verification, and Compliance
LEGAL TEXT: Article 50(2) and 50(5) and recital 133 AI Act


In order to effectively fulfil and demonstrate compliance with their obligations under
Article 50(2) and (5) AI Act, as well as with the Commitments and Measures specified in this
Section of the Code, Signatories commit to set up, keep up to date, and implement compliance,
testing, verification and monitoring processes, as specified in the following measures.

Measure 4.1: Compliance process
Signatories will document, implement, and keep up to date, in line with the state of the art, a
compliance process that describes at a high-level how they have implemented the different
Measures in this Section of the Code to ensure compliance with Article 50(2) and (5) AI Act. This
measure will be implemented in a proportionate manner, taking into account the size and
resources of the Signatory, in particular with regard to providers that are SMEs and SMCs to
minimise burden and simplify compliance.


                                                   20
Signatories may demonstrate compliance through existing processes and compliance
documentation to the extent that they fulfil the measures in this Section of the Code. Where
Signatories rely on marking and detection solutions provided by third parties or implemented
at the level of the generative AI model, Signatories may leverage documentation provided by
those third parties, without prejudice to the ultimate responsibility of the Signatory to ensure
compliance with Article 50(2) and (5) AI Act. Signatories who rely on open-source marking and
detection solutions and standards will document the reliance on those standards and tools, as
well as additional information, only with regard to the measures in this Section of the Code for
which public information is lacking.

Measure 4.2: Testing, verification, and monitoring
Prior to placing their generative AI system on the market or putting it into service, and regularly
thereafter, Signatories will test the compliance of their marking and detection solutions with
the requirements and the measures specified in this Section of the Code. This will be carried
out under conditions that are representative of real-world use, with the objective of ensuring
alignment with the evolving state of the art.
Signatories who are downstream providers of generative AI systems may rely on the results of
testing performed by an upstream model provider or a third-party provider of marking and
detection solutions, so long as those solutions comply with the requirements specified in this
measure and without prejudice to the ultimate responsibility of the Signatory to ensure
compliance with Article 50(2) and (5) AI Act.
Until recognised performance evaluation methods and benchmarks for marking techniques and
detection mechanisms emerge, in particular methods and benchmarks endorsed by the AI
Office after consultation of the AI Board and the taskforce described in Measure 3.5, Signatories
will test and report on the performances of their solution according to internal benchmarks and
industry best practices. Signatories may involve independent experts in the testing of their
solutions, especially to evaluate robustness to adversarial attacks through red teaming and/or
conduct such testing and evaluation under regulatory supervision in the context of AI regulatory
sandboxes, as provided for in Article 57 AI Act.
Signatories will monitor any substantiated compliance shortcomings identified internally or
reported by relevant third parties and implement appropriate follow-up corrective actions.

Measure 4.3: Training
Signatories will make proportionate efforts to provide appropriate training to their personnel
who have roles relevant to ensuring compliance with Article 50(2) and (5) and Article 4 AI Act.
This comprises personnel or external contractors who are involved in the design and
development of the Signatories’ AI systems, and who are responsible for ensuring that the
Commitments and Measures specified in this Section of the Code are implemented effectively.
This measure will be implemented in a proportionate manner, taking into account the size and
resources of the Signatory, in particular with regard to providers that are SMEs and SMCs.

Measure 4.4: Cooperation with market surveillance authorities
In line with Article 74 AI Act and Article 7 of Regulation (EU) 2019/1020 (the Market Surveillance
Regulation), Signatories will cooperate with competent market surveillance authorities under
the AI Act to demonstrate compliance with Article 50(2) and (5) AI Act and their Commitments



                                                   21
under this Section of the Code. At their reasoned request, where necessary for the exercise of
the relevant tasks of the market surveillance authorities, Signatories will provide the
documentation specified in Measure 4.1 and access to their marking and detection solutions.
Article 78 AI Act applies to information obtained in the course of market surveillance activities,
ensuring trade secrets and confidential information are preserved in accordance with the AI Act
and applicable Union law.

Signatories are encouraged to cooperate with the AI Office and the AI Board in providing
information about technologies that could be used to provide transparency across the value
chain and that have been assessed by the AI Office and the AI Board to be compliant with the
Code, for instance via an EU repository of available recognised standards and technologies.

Glossary
Wherever this Section refers to a term defined in Article 3 AI Act, the AI Act definition applies.
The following terms with their stated meanings are used in this Section of the Code. Unless
otherwise stated, all grammatical variations of the terms defined in this Glossary shall be
deemed to be covered by the relevant definition.

 Term                   Definition

 Analog hole            Refers to a category of content processing operations where the digital
                        content is rendered in an analogue form, typically to be presented to
                        natural persons, before being re-digitised. A simple example is
                        recording digital video content displayed on a screen with a digital
                        camera.
 API                    Application Programming Interface: a machine-usable interface to an
                        AI system or another software service.
 Containerised text     Text that is embedded within a structured file format or a container,
                        where the content is organised according to specific rules defined by
                        the format. The container may include metadata, layout information,
                        and encoding details that influence how the text is stored, displayed,
                        and processed. Examples include text inside PDFs, Word documents, or
                        HTML files.
 Desynchronization      Refers to a category of content processing operations where the
 mechanism              position of the digital samples is modified (and also possibly their
                        value). A simple example is applying a mirror effect to a digital image.
                        This definition has to be considered side-by-side with the one for ‘in-
                        place modification’.
 Detection              Mechanism for the detection of watermarks or the verification of
 mechanism for a        digitally signed metadata markings that have been purposefully added
 marking technique      by a provider of an AI system or a third party (e.g. model provider).
                        Different providers of an AI system may share the same detection
                        mechanism, typically when they use a standardized marking technique
                        or develop a shared detection solution jointly. However, in general, a
                        detection mechanism is specific to a given marking technique, i.e.




                                                  22
                     different watermarking techniques will have different detection
                     mechanisms.
Digital signature    A cryptographic signature that enables secure verification of
                     authenticity of the provider and integrity of the signed content.
End-user             A natural person exposed to the content generated or manipulated by
                     the AI system.
Error rate           Relates to the probability of the detection mechanism to misclassify
                     some content as “AI-generated or manipulated”. Error rates can be
                     further broken down for improved interpretability, e.g. the false
                     positive rate can negatively affect the trust that can be put in a marking
                     technique and associated detection mechanism.
Fingerprinting       Also referred to as ‘perceptual hashing’ or ‘robust hash’. Content
                     indexing technique that reduces content to condensed descriptors that
                     can be efficiently looked up even if content has been subject to
                     alterations. Fingerprinting has been used in the past for content-based
                     recognition or identification.
Forensic detection   Detection of AI-generated or manipulated content which does not
                     require prior AI marking. For example, a forensic detection mechanism
                     may aim to capture some intrinsic signal signature present in AI-
                     generated or manipulated content that makes it different from other
                     content.
Free-form            A raw sequence of characters with no enclosing structure, schema, or
text                 container format. It is not bound to any metadata, layout rules, or
                     encoding beyond basic character representation. Examples could be
                     the text that is shown on a website or within a chat.
Homoglyphs           Characters that appear (nearly) identical in shape but that originate
                     from different alphabets, fonts, or encodings. As such, they may be
                     exploited to confuse text marking techniques and associated detection
                     mechanisms.
In-place             Refers to a category of content processing operations where the value
modification         of the digital samples, e.g. image pixels, are modified, but not their
                     locations. A simple example is increasing the contrast of a digital image.
                     This definition has to be considered side-by-side with the one for
                     ‘desynchronization mechanism’.
Logging              Verbatim recording and indexing of content (usually text). Can be used
                     for a fast lookup of known content, i.e., a repository of logged entries
                     can be queried to find out whether content is known to have been AI-
                     generated or manipulated.
Marking              Addition or embedding of a marker to AI-generated or manipulated
                     content such as a digitally signed metadata or imperceptible
                     watermarking. The purpose of this marker is to facilitate the detection
                     of AI-generated or manipulated content.




                                               23
Provenance      A digital record for a piece of content generated or manipulated by an
Information     AI system that shows its origin, how and when the content was
                generated or manipulated and processing applied to the content.
Screencasting   Process of digitally recording the visual output displayed on a screen
                (computer, tablet, smartphone), often with some audio narration, and
                saving it to a file or streaming it live.
Signpost        Openly disclosed marking technique within the content and associated
solution        detection mechanism used to indicate which (watermark) detection
                mechanism shall be employed. This is an interoperability mechanism
                to streamline the detection workflow and avoid running each content
                subject to verification against all detection mechanisms employed by
                providers of generative AI systems whenever metadata is not available.
                It may be implemented, for instance, as an imperceptible machine-
                readable mark.
User            Either a deployer within the meaning of Article 3 (4) AI Act or another
                person that is using the generative AI system of a provider.
UX              “User Experience”, i.e., the way a user interacts with and perceives
                user-sided aspects of a software product.
Very short      Text that is so short that in many cases it cannot be watermarked, even
text            with a basic level of reliability. At the time of publication of the code,
                state-of-the-art techniques enable watermarking with at least a basic
                level of reliability of text as short as 200 tokens, with the expectation
                that this threshold will decrease as new methods become available.
                Until then, “very short text” should be understood as text shorter than
                200 tokens.
Watermark       Technique that embeds a marker within the content in a manner that
                is imperceptible (to natural persons) and robust (the watermark is
                recoverable after content alteration). The watermark is inherently tied
                to the digital representation of the content (e.g. image pixels, audio
                samples) i.e. it is not auxiliary metadata. Watermarking has been used
                in the past for anti-piracy, audience measurement, and proof of
                ownership.




                                          24
           Section 2:
   Labelling deep fakes and
AI-generated and manipulated
 published text applicable to
    deployers of AI systems
 (Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act)




                                                                            -

 Anja Bechmann           Giovanni De Gregorio          Madalina Botan
 Working Group 2 Chair   Working Group 2 Vice -Chair   Working Group 2 Vice -Chair




                                    25
Section 2: Labelling deep fakes and AI-generated
and manipulated published text applicable to
deployers of AI systems (Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act)
Objectives
The overarching objective of this Code of Practice (“Code”) is to improve the functioning of the
internal market, to promote the uptake of human-centric and trustworthy artificial intelligence (“AI”),
while ensuring a high level of protection of health, safety, and fundamental rights enshrined in the
Charter, including democracy, the rule of law, and environmental protection, against harmful effects
of AI in the Union, and to support innovation pursuant to Article 1(1) AI Act.

To achieve this overarching objective, the specific objectives of this Section of the Code are:

a) to serve as a guiding document for demonstrating compliance with the obligations of
   deployers of generative AI systems provided for in Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act, while
   recognising that adherence to the Code does not constitute conclusive evidence of
   compliance with these obligations under the AI Act;

b) to ensure that deployers of AI systems that generate or manipulate image, audio or video
   content constituting a deep fake, or text published with the purpose of informing the public
   on matters of public interest comply with their obligations under Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act,
   and

c) to enable the competent market surveillance authorities to assess compliance by deployers
   who rely on the Code to demonstrate compliance with those obligations under Article 50(4)
   and (5) AI Act in a consistent, predictable, and uniform manner across the Union.

Recitals
Whereas:

a) Clear and distinguishable disclosure: Signatories recognise that advances in generative AI
   enable deployers of AI systems to generate or manipulate content that looks increasingly
   realistic, making it more difficult for people to distinguish it from authentic content. This
   highlights the need for transparency to protect public trust, safeguard democratic discourse,
   and inform individual decision-making. With the assistance of AI systems, deployers can
   generate or manipulate deep fakes that resemble existing persons, objects, places, entities
   or events, falsely appearing authentic or truthful to natural persons, as well as text on
   matters of public interest that is published without human review and editorial control.
   Generation and dissemination of such content pose specific risks of deception and
   manipulation, undermining trust in the information ecosystem and threatening its integrity.
   Signatories acknowledge that clear and distinguishable disclosure of the artificial origin or
   modification of such content required under Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act is a necessary
   safeguard to make individuals aware and inform their decision-making. This safeguard is not
   aimed at providing individuals with information about the trustworthiness of the content,




                                                  26
    but rather at informing them about its artificial origin or the role of the AI system in
    manipulating the content.

b) Consistent and effective implementation: To make such disclosure clear and
   distinguishable for all natural persons, Signatories recognise the need for a certain level of
   uniformity in the disclosure methods as laid out in the Commitments of this Section of the
   Code. Such methods must be effective and aligned with the technical state of the art
   (including for user experience) to the extent feasible and appropriate for the context of
   dissemination. In particular, an optional EU icon provides an easy, practical and uniform
   pathway under the Code for compliance with Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act. At the same time,
   Signatories recognise the broad transversal scope of Article 50(4) AI Act as covering a
   multitude of use cases and contexts across sectors, media, platforms and modalities.
   Signatories acknowledge the need for a minimum level of uniformity and consistency
   regarding the implementation of the design and placement specifications for the icon or
   equivalent labels. At the same time, Signatories may further detail how to implement the
   measures envisaged in this Section of the Code in sector-specific good practices compliant
   with Article 50 AI Act and this Section of the Code.

c) Accessibility: Signatories recognise the importance of ensuring accessible disclosure of AI-
   generated or manipulated deep fakes and text published on matters of public interest within
   the scope of Article 50(4) AI Act, by taking into account the needs of different groups of
   vulnerable people. Disclosure should be designed to ensure it is easily perceivable and
   understandable by all natural persons, including persons with disabilities, children and the
   elderly.

d) Awareness and accountability: Signatories recognise that internal processes, literacy and
   awareness measures, and review mechanisms are essential for ensuring effective disclosure
   of AI-generated or manipulated deep fakes and text published on matters of public interest
   within the scope of Article 50(4) AI Act. To achieve this, Signatories commit to label such AI-
   generated and manipulated content and to disclose it at the latest at the first exposure
   based on the design and placement specifications in this Code. Considering Signatories’
   available organisational resources and technical capacities, this also includes proportionate
   internal processes and measures which aim to ensure that individuals are informed about
   the artificial nature of the content to which they are exposed, including by making publicly
   available information about the use by the Signatory of the EU icon or equivalent labels and
   their meaning.

e) Promoting an ecosystem of transparency and innovation: Signatories acknowledge that
   compliance with Article 50(4) AI Act is not a check-box exercise but aims to create an
   ecosystem of transparency that ties into organisational practices, technological
   developments, and individuals’ awareness. It has the shared goal of empowering individuals
   to make informed decisions by enabling them to understand the origin and nature of
   synthetic content. In such an ecosystem, Signatories recognise that the Code allows for
   continuous developments in a fast-changing technological landscape and in light of the
   transversal scope of Article 50(4) AI Act. Key factors in such a structure of the Code are to
   build an ecosystem that preserves uniformity and recognisability, while allowing for new
   evidence to be gathered and adapted into good practices that support the Code and
   compliance with Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act.



                                                  27
f)   Additional safeguards under other Union and national law: Signatories acknowledge that
     the transparency obligations under the AI Act apply in parallel to, and do not affect, other
     legal obligations or requirements that may apply to the creation, distribution or use of AI-
     generated or manipulated deep fakes and text published on matters of public interest under
     applicable Union legislation (e.g., on data protection, consumer protection, digital services,
     intellectual property, media law, political advertising, criminal law and other relevant
     regulatory frameworks).

Commitments
This Section of the Code applies only to Signatories in so far as they are deployers of AI systems
that generate or manipulate image, audio or video content constituting a deep fake1 or text
published with the purpose of informing the public on matters of public interest falling within
the scope of Article 50(4) AI Act. Each reference below to “content”, “deep fake” or “published
text” implies content that is i) AI-generated or manipulated and that qualifies as a deep fake
under Article 3(60) AI Act (referred to as “deep fake”), or ii) AI-generated or manipulated text
published with the purpose of informing the public on matters of public interest, without human
review or editorial control and where no natural or legal person holds editorial responsibility for
the publication of the content (referred to as “published text” or “text published on matters of
public interest”).

Considering the diversity of deployers and contexts in which deep fakes and published text may
be created and disseminated, Signatories and the associations of which they are part may jointly
establish common good practices for their sector or industry, which could provide further detail
regarding implementation of the Commitments and Measures specified in this Section of the
Code. Any such good practices should be fully aligned with the measures set out below, without
preventing Signatories from tailoring the disclosure practices to their specific sectors to account
for sector specificities and existing rules, nor from providing additional transparency, where
relevant. To ensure transparency, accountability and to enable monitoring by competent market
surveillance authorities, sectoral good practices established in accordance with this paragraph
will be made publicly available online.

In this Section, the terms “will”, “encouraged” and “may” should be interpreted in the following
way:
     1. ‘will’ is used for mandatory measures under the Code that need to be met to be
         compliant with Article 50(4) or (5) AI Act and that will be monitored by competent
         market surveillance authorities;
     2. ‘encouraged’ is used for optional measures under the Code that are not legally required
         and are purely voluntary but are nevertheless recommended;
     3. ‘may’ is used for optional measures under the Code that are not legally required and
         are purely voluntary or provide deployers with flexibility on how to implement the
         respective measure or commitment.




1
 A deep fake is defined in Article 3(60) AI Act as AI-generated or manipulated image, audio or video
content that resembles existing persons, objects, places, entities or events and would falsely appear to a
person to be authentic or truthful.


                                                      28
Commitment 1: Disclosure of Deep Fakes and Published Text
LEGAL TEXT: Article 50(4) and 50(5) and recitals 133 and 135 AI Act

4. Deployers of an AI system that generates or manipulates image, audio or video content
constituting a deep fake, shall disclose that the content has been artificially generated or
manipulated. This obligation shall not apply where the use is authorised by law to detect,
prevent, investigate or prosecute criminal offence. Where the content forms part of an evidently
artistic, creative, satirical, fictional or analogous work or programme, the transparency
obligations set out in this paragraph are limited to disclosure of the existence of such generated
or manipulated content in an appropriate manner that does not hamper the display or
enjoyment of the work.

Deployers of an AI system that generates or manipulates text which is published with the
purpose of informing the public on matters of public interest shall disclose that the text has been
artificially generated or manipulated. This obligation shall not apply where the use is authorised
by law to detect, prevent, investigate or prosecute criminal offences or where the AI-generated
content has undergone a process of human review or editorial control and where a natural or
legal person holds editorial responsibility for the publication of the content.

5. The information referred to in paragraphs 1 to 4 shall be provided to the natural persons
concerned in a clear and distinguishable manner at the latest at the time of the first interaction
or exposure. The information shall conform to the applicable accessibility requirements.

To fulfil their obligations under Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act, Signatories commit to ensure
consistent and effective disclosure of the artificial origin of deep fakes or published text.
Signatories commit to implement such disclosure through the available EU icon provided in
Annex 1 of the Code or through an equivalent icon or label that complies with the design and
placement specifications as described in the following measures.
Signatories may integrate the icon or equivalent label into their existing disclosure practices
under applicable sectoral Union and national legislation or professional codes of conduct, to the
extent that those practices comply with this Section of the Code and Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act.
Signatories recognise that the act of labelling does not exempt them from other Union and
Member States’ laws, such as those related to the protection of third parties’ rights and
freedoms, including applicable legal requirements regarding obtaining consent of the depicted
persons or rightsholders.

Measure 1.1: Design specifications
Where visual disclosure is possible, Signatories will implement the following design
specifications:
a) The icon or equivalent label will comprise, as the main visual element, the capitalised
   acronym “AI” in the English language (e.g., an ‘AI’ icon), unless use of English is incompatible
   with applicable national laws on the use of languages in commercial or administrative
   matters in which case the acronym may be disclosed in the national language. The letters in
   the acronym will have the same vertical dimension. If resized, the proportions of the letters
   must be preserved.




                                                   29
b) Additionally, Signatories are encouraged to supplement the acronym in the icon with
   information regarding whether the deep fake or published text is manipulated or generated
   with AI in an (interactive) second layer where this is technically implementable, in the icon
   or next to the icon (e.g., text indicating “modified” or “generated”, as illustrated in Annex 1).
   Signatories are furthermore encouraged to disclose in the (interactive) second layer what
   has been modified by the AI system (e.g., text or pictogram describing that a face has been
   altered).
c) The icon or equivalent label may appear in different sizes depending on the context, as long
   as Signatories ensure that the disclosure is clear and distinguishable to natural persons. The
   icon or equivalent label may be expressed in different styles (e.g., contrast ratio, colour, or
   typography), as long as it remains clear, accessible, and distinguishable, i.e., readable and
   recognisable to natural persons.
An EU icon following the design specifications for visual disclosure is publicly available for
everyone to use freely (see Annex 1).
Where visual disclosure is not possible (e.g., audio-only content), Signatories will implement
the following design specifications:
a) The disclosure will include, at the beginning of the deep fake itself, a short audible disclaimer
   in plain and simple natural language, either in the same language as the content or in
   English, disclosing the artificial origin of the audio deep fake in a perceivable manner.
b) Where appropriate, the audio disclaimer will be complemented with information regarding
   whether it is AI-generated or manipulated. Signatories are furthermore encouraged to
   disclose what has been modified by the AI system.
Alternatively, Signatories may develop and rely on other forms of audible disclosures (e.g., an
earcon) ahead of the development of a common EU-wide audio solution by the Task Force,
described in Measure 1.3, if the deployment of such an audible disclosure solution is
accompanied by appropriate awareness raising measures (e.g., public information campaigns,
repeated explanatory notices or disclaimers) to ensure broad understanding of the solution by
the natural persons exposed to the deep fake audio.
When applying the design specifications of this measure, Signatories will consider the
potentially diverse composition of the audience exposed to the content (including diverging
levels of AI and digital literacy, language proficiency or general knowledge, and vulnerable user
categories such as children and the elderly), and the potentially sensitive nature of the context
in which the content is used and disseminated (e.g., in the financial, medical, education or other
sensitive sectors).
Signatories will ensure accessible disclosure with respect to different content modalities and
contexts in accordance with applicable Union law, in particular Directive (EU) 2019/882 (the
European Accessibility Act) and Directive (EU) 2016/2102 (the Web Accessibility Directive). This
includes but is not limited to application of:
a) audio descriptions or alternative cues for visual disclosure elements;
b) tactile and haptic cues for audio-only content, considering the needs of end-users with
   hearing impediments (e.g., a vibration alert before audio playing identifying that the audio
   contains deep fake content);
c) high contrast icons or equivalent labels and screen-reader compatibility, including for end-
   users with colour vision deficiencies;


                                                   30
d) detectability of the icon or equivalent label by assistive technologies.
Signatories are encouraged to implement any available relevant accessibility standard or
guideline, including but not limited to the harmonised standard ETSI EN 301 549 “Accessibility
requirements for ICT products and services” or the W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines
2.1, to the extent the Signatories’ services or products fall within the scope of the applicable
accessibility requirements and such standards or guidelines.
Signatories that are also providers of online platforms or online search engines, including
designated very large online platforms or very large online search engines subject to the
obligation to put in place risk mitigation measures under Article 35(1) Digital Services Act (DSA),
are encouraged to use the EU icon or another equivalently compliant solution to enable
deployers of AI systems to implement their labelling obligation in a manner compliant with this
Section of the Code and Article 50(4) AI Act (e.g., by making disclosure solutions available in the
platform upload interfaces for deployers).

Measure 1.2: Placement specifications
To meet the legal requirements of labelling in a clear and distinguishable manner at the latest at
the time of first exposure under Article 50(5) AI Act and considering the dissemination of
published text and deep fakes in particular across online platforms or search engines in both
offline and online environments, Signatories will apply the placement specifications described
in this measure.

Sub-measure 1.2.1: Overarching principles for placement specifications
Signatories will apply the following overarching principles applicable to all content modalities
and contexts, with the exception of deep fakes that are part of artistic, creative, satirical, fictional
or analogous works that are subject to specific disclosure regime specified in Commitment 3:
    a) Considering the content format and dissemination context, the icon or equivalent label
       will be placed in an appropriate and perceivable manner that ensures immediate
       recognition by natural persons without requiring user (inter)action or sustained
       attention.
    b) The icon or equivalent label will remain visible at least for a sufficient duration to be
       noticed under normal exposure conditions to ensure perceivability.
    c) The icon or equivalent label will be directly embedded into the content, unless
       equivalent alternatives to an embedded icon are available (e.g., a user interface overlay
       that for natural persons appears to be on the content), as long as Signatories follow the
       placement specifications in this measure and, to their best effort aim to ensure
       disclosure of the deep fake or published text takes into account the distribution and
       dissemination chain of the content.
    d) The icon or equivalent label will be clearly perceivable and distinguishable at the latest
       at the time of first exposure of a natural person to the deep fake or published text (e.g.,
       by maintaining sufficient spacing to other overlay elements, disclaimers, and
       sound/visual on-screen/on-display elements and remain visible against any
       background).
Signatories are encouraged to collaborate on a best effort basis with actors whose services or
products they use to further distribute or disseminate the deep fake or published text (e.g.,
publishers, online platforms or retail) to preserve the icon or equivalent label with the objective



                                                     31
of ensuring that the required disclosure accompanies the deep fake or published text
throughout its further distribution, whether online or offline and across the entire content
creation, distribution and dissemination chain. This encouragement also applies to disclosures
pursuant to Commitments 3 and 4 of this Section of the Code.

Sub-measure 1.2.2: Placement specifications where visual disclosure is possible
In addition to the overarching principles, Signatories will implement the following placement
specifications where visual disclosure is possible:
a) The icon or equivalent label will appear in an appropriate place where no intervening overlay
   elements exist (e.g., in the top right corner of an image or video deep fake).
b) To account for situations where different natural persons may be exposed to deep fake video
   at different moments (e.g., live content) and to account for downstream use (e.g.,
   screenshots and clipped fragments), Signatories will display the icon or equivalent label at
   the beginning of the video as well as, where possible, at regular intervals throughout the
   video and, at a minimum, after interruptions (e.g., after commercial or advertising breaks).
   Where possible and appropriate depending on the context, Signatories are furthermore
   encouraged to display the icon or equivalent label throughout the deep fake video or during
   the deep fake part of the video, where the deep fake segment does not necessarily span the
   entire duration of the video.
c) Where a deep fake is exclusively used as part of a closed internal professional context (e.g.,
   for the purpose of training or informing employees), the disclosure may be placed in the
   user interface, physical setting or any other appropriate medium readily available to the
   natural persons exposed to the deep fake, informing them before being exposed to the deep
   fake, as long as it is clear and distinguishable for the natural persons involved in the
   professional setting.
d) For visual deep fakes, audible disclosures may only be implemented as an additional
   disclosure method and will always be accompanied by visual disclosures (e.g., where audio
   is part of the user experience or as appropriate for accessibility purposes).
e) For audio deep fakes, when a screen is available, an additional visual disclosure based on
   the icon or equivalent label will be made available (e.g., when a screen is available in a car
   or on a smartphone display), in addition to the audible disclaimer.
f)   For published text, Signatories will place the icon or equivalent label, for example above or
     at the top of the text, near the headline of the text, or in the colophon at the beginning of
     the text, as long as placement is clear, consistent, and distinguishable for the end-user.
     Where appropriate, Signatories may label only that part of the text which is AI-generated or
     manipulated. For short text (single words or brief phrases), where labelling the text outputs
     would degrade readability and usability, Signatories must still carry out the labelling but may
     ensure disclosure through a contextual notice in the user interface (e.g., an indicator
     adjacent to the output, or disclosing that AI is used in the beginning of a user exposure
     session or when first time interacting with the content).

Sub-measure 1.2.3: Placement specifications where visual disclosure is not possible
In addition to the overarching principles, where visual disclosure is not possible, Signatories will
include an audible disclaimer at the latest at the time of the first exposure to the deep fake.
Additionally, audible cues may be used (e.g., tones or earcons) to support recognition.




                                                   32
In order to cater for downstream use (e.g., clipped audio fragments) and for long-form or live
exposure, Signatories will, where appropriate, supplement the initial audible disclaimer at the
beginning of the content with reminders at regular intervals (e.g., disclaimers, tones or earcons)
for the entire duration of the audio deep fake to ensure ongoing awareness, and at minimum
after interruptions (e.g., by advertisements).

Measure 1.3: Voluntary participation in a task force under the Code
Signatories are encouraged to support the work and activities of a dedicated task force under
the Code aimed at advancing the further development and usability of the EU icon as a minimum
state-of-the-art implementation. The task force will, inter alia, aim to:
a) further promote the uptake and development of the EU icon (incl. non-visual/audio-only
   versions of the icon);
b) update the EU icon to ensure state-of-art disclosure at all times including in line with user
   experience (UX) standards;
c) assess feasibility and work towards advancing technical solutions, including the
   development of an interactive second layer linked to the EU icon or other equivalent labels,
   which provide opportunities for the integration of the EU icon or equivalent label into online
   content dissemination services to provide end-users with additional information (e.g., type
   of AI-involvement in a deep fake or published text). This interactive second layer may be
   implemented to the extent feasible and practical, and in alignment with the technical
   marking solutions described in Section 1 of the Code, to ensure robustness of the
   information provided in the icon and the accompanying information;
d) work towards identifying common methods for disclosing the type of AI involvement in the
   case of AI manipulated deep fakes or published text, with a view to advancing consistency
   in the implementation among Signatories;
e) provide a forum for Signatories to exchange good practices across sectors and possibly to
   develop sectoral good practices regarding the disclosure of deep fakes and published text in
   line with this Section of the Code.
Signatories and relevant stakeholders from various sectors, including but not limited to
independent researchers, civil society organisations and national competent authorities, are
encouraged to participate in the task force.

Commitment 2: Internal Processes
To effectively fulfil and demonstrate compliance with the obligations under Article 50(4) and (5)
AI Act and the Commitments and Measures specified in this Section of the Code, Signatories
commit to put in place or maintain internal processes, awareness measures and review
mechanisms as specified in the measures below and proportionate to their size and available
resources.

Measure 2.1: Internal compliance process
Proportionate to their size, available organisational resources, and capacities, Signatories will
put in place or maintain appropriate internal compliance processes and documentation that
specifies how they implement the disclosure obligations using the icon or equivalent label. Such
documentation may include a general description and representative, concrete and real




                                                  33
examples of how disclosures are implemented in practice in accordance with Commitments 1,
3 and 4.
Signatories are encouraged to publish information on the disclosure solution they apply in a
clear and accessible manner. If Signatories use the publicly available EU icon under
Commitment 1, they may do so by using the information provided with the EU icon. If a
Signatory chooses to apply their own icon or equivalent label, a similar description of the icon
or label is encouraged to be made publicly available. This may include images of the icon or
equivalent label(s) in use, as well as explanations of the meaning of each label. Where an icon
or equivalent label carries a different meaning depending on the context, it is encouraged that
any variations are explained.
Where appropriate and particularly in cases of regular use of AI systems to create deep fakes or
published text, Signatories will put in place or maintain a process to ensure and verify that the
design and placement specifications are implemented properly to mitigate risks of non-labelled
or incorrectly labelled content.
Media service providers within the meaning of Article 2(2) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1083 may
comply with this Measure by applying their existing procedures and established professional
standards, to the extent that those practices comply with the measures within this Commitment
and Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act.

Measure 2.2: Awareness and literacy
Signatories will make efforts proportionate to their size, available organisational resources, and
capacities to ensure awareness of the disclosure obligations under Article 50(4) and (5) AI Act
among their personnel, including employees, and external contractors directly involved in the
implementation of disclosure measures or overseeing compliance with the measures in this
Section of the Code.
Signatories are encouraged to provide training or equivalent guidance covering situations in
which disclosure is legally required, how disclosures are implemented in the workflow, cases
when editorial responsibility is involved, cases involving artistic, creative, satirical, fictional or
analogous work, accessibility considerations, and procedures for correcting missing or incorrect
labels where these have been identified.
AI literacy related efforts should be proportionate to the size and available resources of the
Signatory, and applied as appropriate to the roles, technical knowledge, experience, and
education of personnel involved in creating, modifying, and disseminating relevant content
subject to the labelling obligations. Signatories remain free to determine the training formats
and their frequency.

Measure 2.3: Review, feedback and cooperation with authorities
Signatories will support the effective implementation of the design and placement specifications
through internal review and external feedback.
Signatories are encouraged to provide channels that allow individuals or third parties (e.g.,
trusted flaggers, independent researchers, academics, fact-checkers) to flag missing or incorrect
disclosures, where appropriate through existing reporting mechanisms (e.g., trusted flagger
mechanisms, interfaces for third-party fact-checking services or notice and action mechanisms).
Signatories will review cases that have been reported in a substantiated manner as mislabelled
or incorrectly labelled and take measures to remedy cases of non-compliance with Article 50(4)


                                                    34
and (5) without undue delay. Signatories will cooperate with competent authorities in
accordance with applicable Union and national laws (e.g., national market surveillance
authorities).

Commitment 3: Disclosure for Artistic, Creative and Similar
Works
In accordance with Article 50(4) AI Act, Signatories commit to implement measures to disclose
deep fakes that form part of evidently artistic, creative, satirical, fictional or analogous work or
programmes in a way that does not hamper the display or enjoyment of the work, including its
normal exploitation and use, while maintaining the utility and quality of the work.
In this context, Signatories will:
a) use an icon or equivalent label following the design specifications in Measure 1.1. and place
   it in a manner appropriate to the type of artistic, creative, satirical, fictional or analogous
   work and to the context in which it is presented.
b) ensure such disclosure and placement are clear, distinguishable, and accessible to all natural
   persons, and provided at the latest at the time of first exposure to the content containing
   the deep fake (e.g., in the accompanying notes or description provided to users, at the
   beginning/ end credits etc.).
c) ensure the icon or equivalent label is perceivable for a sufficient duration to be easily
   noticed under normal viewing or exposure conditions to ensure perceivability.
Where deep fake content is made available in a digital or interactive manner (e.g., on websites,
apps or other user interfaces), the icon or equivalent label may be placed outside but adjacent
to the video or image frame, or adjacent to the audio content and integrated into user interface
elements or overlays, under the control of the Signatory. Signatories commit to ensure that any
such contextual disclosure solution is perceivable by the end-user without the need to perform
dedicated actions or additional engagement. Examples of contextual disclosure include
disclosures as part of the user interface (e.g., as part of websites or application interfaces of
smart glasses or other digital devices), short notes, a non-obtrusive icon or label that by clicking
or hovering over provides more information, disclaimers appearing adjacent to the content.
Where content is made available in a non-digital or non-interactive manner (e.g., exhibitions,
art galleries, cinemas, festivals or similar contexts, audio or video on a physical carrier),
disclosures may be provided at the online or physical point of entry or sale, as part of the
introductory or accompanying information (e.g. exhibition leaflet or entrance ticket), or
information provided via a physical carrier (e.g. packaging).

Commitment 4: Human Review and Editorial Control for
Published Text
Signatories who are media service providers within the meaning of Art. 2(2) of Regulation (EU)
2024/1083 and already subject to editorial standards and to regulatory, co-regulatory, or self-
regulatory frameworks, as applicable to those media service providers under EU and national
media law and frameworks, may rely on the exception to the disclosure obligation in
Article 50(4), subparagraph 2, AI Act by applying their existing review and editorial procedures
and established professional standards, as applicable, to comply with this Commitment.




                                                   35
All other Signatories, including those without such review or editorial procedures, commit to
establish, adapt, or maintain appropriate policies for human review or editorial control prior to
publication and that a natural or legal person holds editorial responsibility for the publication.
These internal policies may rely on existing processes, will be proportionate to the deployer’s
size and resources, and will include at least the following elements:
a) The identification of the natural or legal person with editorial responsibility (name, role and
   contact details);
b) An overview of the concrete organisational measures as well as human resources, allocated
   to ensure adequate human review or editorial control is performed and editorial
   responsibility is assumed before publication of the published text. This does not entail
   having to document individual instances of human review or editorial control over individual
   text publications.
Where not already publicly available, Signatories commit to publish the contact details of the
function, the natural persons or the legal persons with editorial responsibility to ensure
accountability.
Signatories may record additional information on the nature of the review or the type of
involvement of the AI system in the published text.
The implementation of this Commitment shall in no way affect media freedom, editorial
independence and protection of journalistic source information.




                                                  36
Annex

Annex 1: Publicly available EU icons
This Annex contains the EU icons that may be used by deployers to comply with Measure 1.1.
Three main icons are provided. One icon is intended to disclose fully AI-generated deep fakes or
published text (Figure 1), a second icon is intended to disclose AI-manipulated/partially
modified deep fakes or published text (Figure 2), and a third basic icon is included to enable
deployers to supplement it with an interactive layer with further information or an alternative
textual label, where appropriate (Figure 3).
The design and development of the EU icon have been subject to empirical user-testing
conducted across several Member States, which evaluated the perception of authenticity,
noticeability and recognition, understandability and trust. The user-tests included various icon
designs and demonstrated that while all tested designs achieved high noticeability and
reliability, the variants that include a clear textual label (i.e. “modified”) performed significantly
better in terms of noticeability and clarity for end-users. Respondents participating in the survey
indicated that explicit text on AI-generation or manipulation reduces the ambiguity regarding
the nature of the content. Consequently, based on this user feedback, the Code includes an icon
for fully AI-generated content (“AI + GENERATED”) and one for partially manipulated content
(“AI + MODIFIED”) to increase transparency for the persons exposed to the content and fulfil the
disclosure objectives of the AI Act. The findings and methodology of the empirical study will be
made public.
These icons are publicly available for Signatories to use in line with the placement specifications,
without the need for attribution to the Commission or the AI Office.
The task force will explore the integration of an interactive second layer with the aim to enrich
the above static icons with provenance data and information on what has been modified. The
development of this interactive layer will be in alignment with the technical capabilities of
deployers and other actors distributing and/or verifying content. An-audio-only EU icon will also
be developed.




Figure 1. The EU icon developed by the AI Office for fully AI-generated content in several
variations against a background (black, white, black transparent, white transparent).




Figure 2. The EU icon developed by the AI Office for partially AI-modified content in several
variations against a background (black, white, black transparent, white transparent).




                                                    37
Figure 3. The basic EU icon developed by the AI Office in several variations against a background
(black, white, black transparent, white transparent).




                                                 38
