THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
           BUS SERVICES INDUSTRY ACT 2015

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                                                                   2020 Ed.

Bus Services Industry Act 2015

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                                PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Purposes of Act
     2.  Act binds Government
     3.  Administration of Act
     4.
     5.

                                        PART 2

             BUS SERVICES PROCUREMENT FRAMEWORK

 6. Public bus services contracts
 7. Contents of public bus services contracts
 8. Enforcement of performance standards in public bus services

         contracts
 9. Offer of further public bus services contract
10. Termination of public bus services contracts

                                        PART 3

                      LICENSING OF BUS OPERATORS

                                Division 1 — General

11. Unauthorised operation of bus services
12. Application for or to renew bus service licences
13. Grant, etc., of bus service licences
14. Validity of bus service licences
15. Conditions of bus service licences
16. Modifying conditions of bus service licence
17. Restriction on transfer and surrender of bus service licence

     Division 2 — Special restrictions for Class 1 bus service licences

18. Change in management of Class 1 bus service licence

                                1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                                   2

Section   Appointment and removal of chief executive officer, director,
   19.    etc.
          Restrictions on acquisition of essential operating assets
   20.    Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc., of bus operators
   21.    holding Class 1 bus service licences

                                        PART 4

                       LICENSING OF BUS DEPOT OR
                      BUS INTERCHANGE OPERATORS

22. Unauthorised operation of bus depots or bus interchanges
23. Application for bus depot licence or bus interchange licence
24. Grant of bus depot licence or bus interchange licence
25. Validity and renewal of bus depot licence or bus interchange

         licence
26. Conditions of bus depot licence or bus interchange licence
27. Modifying conditions of bus depot licence or bus interchange

         licence
28. Restriction on transfer and surrender of bus depot licence or bus

         interchange licence

          PART 4A

          CONTROL OF DESIGNATED ENTITIES

          Division 1 — Preliminary

28A.      Extraterritorial application of this Part
28B.      Interpretation of this Part
28C.      What holding an equity interest means
28D.      Meanings of “associate”, “related corporation”, “subsidiary”
          and “holding company”
28E.      Designation of designated operating entities and designated
          equity interest holders

          Division 2 — Control of designated entities

28F.      Notice to LTA by 5% controller of designated entity
28G.      Approvals of LTA in relation to equity interests and control of
          voting power in designated entities in certain cases
28H.      Appointment and removal of chief executive officer,
          chairperson, director, etc., of designated entity
28I.      Acquisition of business of designated operating entity as going
          concern

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
3        Bus Services Industry Act 2015                               2020 Ed.

Section  Occurrence of certain events
   28J.  Duty of designated entity or trustee-manager to report changes
   28K.  of equity and control of certain persons
         Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc., of designated
   28L.  operating entities

         Division 3 — Remedial directions

   28M. Remedial directions relating to section 28G
   28N. Effect of remedial directions issued under section 28M, etc.
   28O. Remedial directions relating to section 28H
   28P. Remedial directions relating to section 28I
   28Q. Other provisions relating to remedial directions

         Division 4 — Penalties

   28R. Penalties under this Part

                                           PART 5

                              STEP-IN ARRANGEMENTS

   29. Application of this Part
   30. Step-in order
   31. Other provisions in step-in arrangements
   32. Interim services contracts
   33. Rules and saving for step-in arrangements

                                          PART 5A

                      SPECIAL ADMINISTRATION ORDERS
                              AND OTHER ORDERS FOR

                       DESIGNATED OPERATING ENTITIES

   33A. Interpretation of this Part
   33B. Non-application of this Part to designated operating entities that

            are licensees
   33C. Meaning and purposes of special administration order
   33D. Power to make special administration order and other orders
   33E. Ancillary directions, etc., when special administration order,

            etc., is made
   33F. Effect of special administration order and other orders
   33G. Duties of designated operating entity or trustee-manager, etc.
   33H. Transfer of property, etc., under special administration order
   33I. Regulations for this Part

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                                 4

          PART 6

          ENFORCEMENT AND MONITORING COMPLIANCE

Section   Accounts and statements
          Record-keeping and giving information on quality of service
   34.    Power to obtain information
   35.    Codes of practice
   36.    Directions affecting licensees
   37.    Suspension or revocation, etc., of licence
   38.    Composition of offences
   39.
   40.

                                        PART 7
                                       APPEALS

41. Appeal to Minister
42. Designation of others to hear appeals

                                       PART 7A

              CONDUCT OF INDIVIDUALS ON BUSES AND
              AT BUS DEPOTS AND BUS INTERCHANGES

      Division 1 — Regulation of conduct of individuals on buses and
                       at bus depots and bus interchanges

42AA. Screening, etc., bus passengers and entrants to bus interchanges
42AB. Bringing dangerous items into bus or bus interchange
42AC. Offence of wilfully endangering safety
42AD. Damage to bus, bus depot or bus interchange
42AE. Compensation for damaging bus, bus depot or bus interchange

          Division 2 — Administration and enforcement of Part 7A

42AF. Purpose for which powers are exercisable
42AG. Powers of authorised officer
42AH. Powers of arrest
42AI. Authorised employee of licensee, etc., to exercise certain powers

         of authorised officers
42AJ. Regulations for this Part

                                        PART 8
                                 MISCELLANEOUS
42A. Advisory guidelines

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
5        Bus Services Industry Act 2015                               2020 Ed.

Section  Authorised officers
         Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
   43.   Service of documents
   44.   General exemption
   45.   Jurisdiction of courts
   46.   Protection from personal liability
   47.   No compensation payable
   47A.  Power to amend Schedule
   48.   Regulations
   48A.  The Schedule — Bus services and other services for
   49.
                               purposes of paragraphs (b) and (c) of
                               definition of “essential transport
                               service”

An Act to regulate the provision of bus services and the operation of
  bus depots and bus interchanges in Singapore, to regulate the
  conduct of individuals on buses, at bus depots and at bus
  interchanges in Singapore, and to control entities providing
  essential transport services and their equity interest holders.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

                                                            [22 January 2016]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Bus Services Industry Act 2015.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act —
      “authorised officer”, for any provision of this Act, means an
         employee of the LTA who is appointed as an authorised
         officer under section 43 for the purposes of that provision;
      “bus” means any motor vehicle registered as a bus under the
         Road Traffic Act 1961;

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            6

“bus depot” means any premises with purpose‑built facilities for
   the parking, maintenance or refuelling of buses, or the
   charging of batteries of buses (when the battery is attached to
   the bus), by bus operators holding Class 1 bus service
   licences, but does not include any such premises if located
   within any bus interchange;

                                                                       [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

“bus depot licence” means a bus depot licence granted (or
   deemed granted) under Part 4 to operate a bus depot specified
   in the licence;

“bus depot site” means the premises in Singapore on which a bus
   depot is or is to be situated;

“bus interchange” means a terminal or station with purpose‑built
   facilities —

          (a) for the commencement or termination of one or more
               bus services; and

        (b) that may also provide for the boarding or alighting of
             passengers;

                                                                       [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

“bus interchange licence” means a bus interchange licence
   granted (or deemed granted) under Part 4 to operate a bus
   interchange specified in the licence;

“bus interchange site” means the premises in Singapore on
   which a bus interchange is or is to be situated;

“bus operator”, in relation to a bus service, means the person
   who operates the bus service, but does not include —

          (a) the LTA; or

          (b) a person who merely arranges for the registration of a
               bus, drives a bus or maintains or arranges for the
               maintenance of a bus;

“bus passenger”, in relation to a bus, means an individual carried
   on board the bus, and includes —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
7  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

   (a) an individual boarding or intending to board the bus
        for the purpose of travelling on the bus as a
        passenger; and

           (b) an individual boarding or intending to board the bus,
                or travelling on the bus, for the purpose of engaging
                in any work on the bus;

                                                                          [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

   “bus service” means a service consisting of the carriage of
      passengers, for a fare, by buses operated —

   (a) at predetermined timetables; and

   (b) on a fixed route on roads for journeys wholly or
        partly within Singapore with 2 or more bus stopping
        points within Singapore;

   “bus service licence” means a bus service licence granted (or
      deemed granted) under Part 3 to operate a bus service, or the
      bus services, specified in the licence;

   “bus stopping point” means a location designated for a bus to
      stop for the purposes of passengers boarding and
      disembarking the bus;

   “business trust” and “trustee-manager” have the meanings given
      by section 2 of the Business Trusts Act 2004;

                                                                          [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

   “chief executive officer”, in relation to a licensee, means an
      individual (by whatever name described) who —

   (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
        arrangement with, the licensee; or

   (b) is principally responsible for the management and
        conduct of the business of the licensee in operating a
        bus service, bus depot or bus interchange, as the case
        may be,

   and includes an individual for the time being performing all
   or any of the functions or duties of a chief executive officer;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            8

“Class 1 bus service licence” means a bus service licence
   authorising the operation of 10 or more regular route services
   specified in the licence;

“Class 2 bus service licence” means a bus service licence
   authorising the operation of a single bus service specified in
   the licence;

“code of practice” means a code of practice issued or approved
   by the LTA under section 37, and includes any such code of
   practice as amended from time to time under that section;

“community bus service” means a bus service —

          (a) consisting of the carriage of passengers by a bus for
               or in connection with the activities of a religious,
               educational, health, welfare, philanthropic, sporting
               or charitable organisation; and

          (b) provided for a fare, or for consideration which is
               limited to the costs or part of the costs incurred in
               making the journey;

“company” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“corporation” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

                                                                       [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

“courtesy bus service” means a bus service which is —

          (a) provided for the purpose of promoting the sale or
               supply of any product or service sold or supplied by a
               business organisation in the course of business in
               Singapore; and

          (b) provided for a fare, or for consideration which is
               limited to the costs or part of the costs incurred in
               making the journey;

“designated entity” means a designated equity interest holder or
   a designated operating entity;

          [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
9  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

   “designated equity interest holder” means an entity that has been
      designated as a designated equity interest holder under
      section 28E;

                                                                          [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

   “designated operating entity” means an entity that has been
      designated as a designated operating entity under
      section 28E;

                                                                          [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

   “director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
      Companies Act 1967;

   “effective designation date”, in relation to a designated entity,
      means the date specified under section 28E(3) as the date on
      which the designation of that entity as a designated operating
      entity or designated equity interest holder (as the case may
      be) takes effect;

                                                                          [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

   “entity” means any sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation
      or other body of persons, whether corporate or unincorporate,
      and includes a business trust;

                                                                          [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

   “essential transport service” means —

   (a) the service of operating any bus depot or bus
        interchange;

   (b) any bus service specified or described in the
        Schedule; or

   (c) any service specified or described in the Schedule
       which is necessary —

   (i) for the continuity of; or

   (ii) for supporting,

   (c) the provision of any bus service mentioned in
       paragraph (b) or the operation of any bus depot or
       bus interchange;

                                                              [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            10

“fare” means the price payable by an individual passenger for
   any bus service, and includes the provision of, or
   arrangement for, a discount, concession, allowance, rebate
   or credit applying in relation to the price payable for use of
   that service;

“interim services contract” has the meaning given by section 32;

“licence” means a bus service licence, a bus depot licence or a
   bus interchange licence;

“licensed” means licensed (or deemed licensed) under this Act
   for the time being, but does not include any period when a
   licence is suspended;

“licensee” means a licensed bus operator, a licensed bus depot
   operator or a licensed bus interchange operator;

“limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by the
   Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

“LTA” means the Land Transport Authority of Singapore
   constituted under the Land Transport Authority of
   Singapore Act 1995;

“modification” and “modify”, in relation to the conditions of a
   licence, include deleting or varying and substituting a
   condition, and adding a condition;

“operate” means —

          (a) for a bus service — to control or direct the operations
               of the bus service in connection with a business for,
               or involving, the transport of passengers by road by
               that bus service, but does not include —

          (i) merely arranging for the registration of a bus;

          (ii) merely driving a bus; or

          (iii) merely maintaining or arranging for the
                maintenance of a bus; and

          (b) for a bus depot or bus interchange — to control or
               direct the operations of the bus depot or bus

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
11  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    interchange in connection with a business, but does
    not include the following:

    (i) merely driving a bus;

    (ii) merely repairing a bus;

    (iii) merely refuelling a bus, or supplying fuel for
          buses, parked at a bus depot or bus interchange;

                  (iv) merely charging the battery of a bus, or
                        supplying electricity for the charging of
                        batteries of buses, parked at a bus depot or
                        bus interchange;

                                                                           [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

    “partner”, in relation to a limited liability partnership, has the
       meaning given by section 2(1) of the Limited Liability
       Partnerships Act 2005;

    “penalty provision”, for a public bus services contract, means a
       provision in the public bus services contract that provides for
       the payment of an amount of penalty —

    (a) for a breach of the public bus services contract;

    (b) for a failure (not being a breach of contract) to meet a
         requirement specified in the contract; or

    (c) on the termination of the contract;

    “performance standards”, for bus services, includes —

    (a) minimum service levels determined according to
         such things as the periods of time during which the
         services are to be operated, the extent of services and
         the frequency of operation of services during
         specified periods; and

    (b) performance outcomes for frequency, regularity,
         punctuality and accessibility of bus services, and of
         customer information and service,

    and where there are different performance standards
    determined by the LTA under this Act for different classes
    of bus services or different classes of bus operators of bus

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            12

          services, means the performance standards determined for
          that class of bus services or bus operators, as the case may be;

“premises” means a building or structure (whether permanent or
   temporary) or part of the building or structure, and includes
   any immediately adjoining space or land necessary for access
   to, or for the enjoyment of occupants of, the building or
   structure;

“public bus operator” means a bus operator who is party to a
   public bus services contract for the provision of bus services
   specified in the contract;

“public bus services contract” means a contract entered into by
   the LTA under Part 2 for the provision of bus services
   specified in the contract;

“public bus system” means all the components which make up
   the system for the movement of individuals on bus services
   including —

          (a) the physical components such as —

          (i) facilities for accessing, disembarking and the
              interchange of passengers, including bus
              stopping infrastructure and bus interchanges;

          (ii) bus depots and other facilities for the
               maintenance, refuelling and parking of buses;

          (iii) buses; and

          (iv) control, communications and location systems
               and technology, information, and other systems
               and equipment for the provision of bus
               services; and

          (b) the management components such as —

          (i) plans for building the network and acquiring
              vehicles;

          (ii) operations planning including business plans,
               corporate plans, operations plans and
               contingency plans;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
13  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    (iii) operational matters required to operate the
          system including schedules, timetables and
          ticketing systems;

    (iv) legislative and regulatory systems such as
         registration, licensing and accreditation;

    (v) the labour components including all the
         persons involved in planning, policy
         development, operations, and regulating and
         managing the physical and management
         components of the system; and

    (vi) administration, maintenance and information
         management matters;

    “Public Transport Council” or “PTC” means the Public
       Transport Council established under the Public Transport
       Council Act 1987;

    “regular route service” means a bus service that is conducted
       according to predetermined routes and timetables with 2 or
       more bus stopping points within Singapore, but does not
       include —

    (a) a tourist bus service;

    (b) a community bus service;

    (c) a courtesy bus service; or

    (d) a bus service excluded from this definition by the
         Minister by order in the Gazette;

    “regulatory action” means any action in section 39(1) or (2) that
       may be taken by the LTA against a licensee;

    “step-in order” means an order made under section 30;

    “tourist bus service” means a bus service where —

    (a) tourism is a major and regular feature or focus of the
         service;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            14

          (b) the passenger profile including, in particular, whether
               users of the service, are mainly sightseers or pursuing
               mainly tourism activities;

          (c) all passengers’ journeys stop at or divert to points of
              cultural, historic, scenic, scientific or sporting
              interest in Singapore; and

          (d) the passengers are taken on to or back to hotels or
               other tourist accommodation or a tourism travel
               connection.

                                                                     [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Purposes of Act

 3. The purposes of this Act are —

       (a) to regulate the provision in Singapore of bus services and
            the operators of bus depots and bus interchanges;

      (aa) to control entities providing essential transport services
            and their equity interest holders;

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

      (ab) to regulate the conduct of bus passengers of buses, and
            members of the public at bus depots and bus interchanges,
            in Singapore;

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

       (b) to implement a bus services procurement framework; and

       (c) to provide for the service standards that apply in the
            provision of bus services and the operation of bus depots
            and bus interchanges,

so as to facilitate the delivery of safe, reliable and efficient bus
services in Singapore.

Act binds Government

 4.—(1) This Act binds the Government.

 (2) However, nothing in this Act renders the Government liable to
prosecution for an offence under this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
15  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

 (3) To avoid doubt, no person is immune from prosecution for any
offence under this Act by reason only that the person is engaged to
provide services to the Government.

Administration of Act

 5.—(1) It is the function of the LTA to exercise licensing and
regulatory functions in accordance with this Act with respect to the
provision in Singapore of bus services and the operation of bus depots
and bus interchanges, the conduct of bus passengers of buses, and
members of the public at bus depots and bus interchanges, in
Singapore, and the control of entities providing essential transport
services and their equity interest holders, and to otherwise administer
this Act.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

 (2) In discharging the functions and duties imposed on it by
subsection (1), the LTA must have regard to the need —

       (a) for reliable, seamless, safe, secure and convenient
            passenger travel on buses and other forms of land
            transport in Singapore;

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

       (b) for ensuring that any person licensed or otherwise
            authorised under this Act to operate any bus service, bus
            depot or bus interchange is able to do so efficiently while
            maintaining independent financial viability; and

       (c) for sustainability, adequacy and optimisation of capacity
            across the network of bus services and services for train
            journeys within Singapore.

                                    PART 2
         BUS SERVICES PROCUREMENT FRAMEWORK
Public bus services contracts
 6.—(1) The LTA may enter into a public bus services contract with
any person for the provision of one or more regular route services.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            16

 (2) In particular, the LTA may enter into a public bus services
contract for the provision of one or more regular route services under
subsection (1) with a person that is subject to a condition precedent
that requires that person to obtain a bus service licence for that regular
route service or services, as the case may be.

 (3) The LTA may invite public bus services contracts by tender or in
any other manner it thinks fit.

Contents of public bus services contracts

 7.—(1) A public bus services contract may relate to a particular
area in Singapore or route wholly or partly within Singapore.

 (2) However, a public bus services contract must —

       (a) specify the term of the contract;

       (b) provide the manner in which the public bus operator who is
            party to the contract will be remunerated or gain revenue
            from the provision of the regular route service or services
            under the contract; and

       (c) specify the performance standards to be met by the public
            bus operator who is party to the contract in relation to the
            provision of regular route services under the contract.

 (3) A public bus services contract may make provision in relation to
the operation of any regular route service under the contract and the
administration of the contract, including but not limited to —

       (a) the variation of the contract, such as —

               (i) to extend the service into developing areas in
                   Singapore;

              (ii) for public safety;

             (iii) because of changed traffic conditions;

             (iv) to improve that regular route service in the public
                   interest;

              (v) to address a serious or frequent failure on the part of
                   the public bus operator under the contract to observe
                   the terms and conditions of the contract; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
17  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    (vi) to address the public bus operator under the contract
         having been found guilty of an offence under this Act
         committed during the term of the contract;

    (b) the fees (if any) payable under the contract;

    (c) monetary or other penalties —

    (i) for a breach of the contract;

    (ii) for a failure (not being a breach of contract) to meet a
         requirement specified in the contract; or

    (iii) payable on the termination of the contract;

    (d) the records (including accounts) to be made and kept, and
         how they are to be made and kept; and

    (e) bonds for the performance of obligations or specified
        obligations under the contract.

 (4) Subsection (3) does not limit the matters about which a public
bus services contract may make provision.

Enforcement of performance standards in public bus services
contracts

 8.—(1) Performance standards provided for by a public bus
services contract are to be enforced by penalty provisions or in any
other manner that the contract may provide.

 (2) A person —

       (a) who breaches a public bus services contract;

       (b) who fails (being not a breach of contract) to meet a
            requirement specified in a public bus services contract; or

       (c) who terminates a public bus services contract,

that is enforceable by a penalty provision is liable to pay, as a debt due
to the LTA, an amount determined in accordance with the contract as
the penalty for the breach, failure or termination, as the case may be.

 (3) A public bus services contract may provide that an amount
payable under a penalty provision may also be recovered by

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            18

withholding amounts otherwise payable under the contract and may
contain other related provisions.

 (4) To avoid doubt, subsection (1) does not limit the provisions of a
public bus services contract that may be enforced by penalty
provisions.

 (5) This section has effect despite any rule of, or principle at,
common law.

Offer of further public bus services contract

 9.—(1) The LTA may enter into a further public bus services
contract with a licensed bus operator on, before or after the end of the
term of a public bus services contract with that bus operator only if
the LTA decides that that operator’s performance under the public bus
services contract (called in this section an existing public bus services
contract) has been satisfactory.

 (2) However, a further contract may be on the same or different
terms.

 (3) This section does not apply to an existing public bus services
contract in relation to which an option to renew may be exercised
under the contract, or an interim services contract.

 (4) To avoid doubt, nothing in this Part confers a right to or
expectation of a further public bus services contract.

Termination of public bus services contracts

 10.—(1) A public bus services contract is automatically terminated
if —

       (a) the public bus operator that is party to a contract with a
            condition precedent mentioned in section 6(2) ceases to
            hold the bus service licence for the regular route service or
            services specified in the contract; or

       (b) the operator contravenes section 17.

 (2) To avoid doubt, subsection (1) does not limit the enforcement by
penalty provisions in the public bus services contract for the
termination of the contract.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
19  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    PART 3

    LICENSING OF BUS OPERATORS

    Division 1 — General

Unauthorised operation of bus services

 11.—(1) A person must not operate in Singapore a bus service
unless —

    (a) the person is authorised to do so by a bus service licence;

    (b) the person is exempt from this section by or under this Act
         in relation to that bus service;

    (c) the person is the LTA; or

    (d) the person (called in this Act a bus service subcontractor) is
         authorised to do so by contract with a person referred to in
         paragraph (a) or (b).

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) where the number of bus services operated in
         contravention is 10 or more regular route services — to
         a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term
         not exceeding 6 months or to both and, in the case of a
         continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $5,000
         for every day or part of a day during which the offence
         continues after conviction; or

    (b) in any other case — to a fine not exceeding $10,000 and, in
         the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
         exceeding $500 for every day or part of a day during which
         the offence continues after conviction.

Application for or to renew bus service licences

 12.—(1) An application for or to renew a bus service licence must
be made to the LTA in accordance with this section.

 (2) An application for a bus service licence or to renew a bus
service licence must —

       (a) be in the form and manner that the LTA may determine;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            20

(b) be accompanied by an application fee, if prescribed; and

          (c) be accompanied by the prescribed information and any
              other additional information that the LTA requires to
              decide on the application.

 (3) The LTA may refuse to consider an application for or to renew a
bus service licence that is incomplete or not made in accordance with
this section.

Grant, etc., of bus service licences

 13.—(1) After considering any application for or to renew a bus
service licence, the LTA may —

       (a) on payment of —

               (i) a bus service licence fee (if prescribed) — grant the
                   applicant a Class 1 bus service licence or Class 2 bus
                   service licence; or

              (ii) a renewal fee or late renewal fee (if prescribed) —
                   renew the licence; or

       (b) refuse to grant or renew the bus service licence, as the case
            may be.

 (2) In deciding whether an applicant should be granted a Class 1 bus
service licence, or whether the applicant’s Class 1 bus service licence
should be renewed, and the conditions to impose or modify, the LTA
must have regard to, and give such weight as the LTA considers
appropriate to, all of the following matters:

       (a) the applicant’s capacity to comply with the requirements
            for financial viability in operating the regular route
            services in the application;

       (b) the applicant’s capacity to deliver the regular route services
            in the application according to the performance standards
            and other terms in a public bus services contract;

       (c) the demand for the regular route services in the application;

       (d) the existence of other bus services in the same area;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
21  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    (e) whether the applicant is a company, partnership, limited
        liability partnership or other body corporate;

    (f) whether the applicant and, where necessary, whether —

    (i) every member of the board of directors or committee
        or board of trustees or other governing body of an
        applicant that is a company, limited liability
        partnership or other body corporate; or

    (ii) every partner of an applicant that is a partnership,

    (f) is a suitable person to be involved in the management or
        operation of the regular route services in the application;

    (g) whether it is otherwise contrary to the public interest for
         the licence to be granted to the applicant.

 (3) For the purpose of determining whether or not a person referred
to in subsection (2)(f) is a suitable person to be involved in the
management or operation of 10 or more regular route services, the
LTA must, having regard to the degree and nature of the person’s
proposed involvement in the public bus system in Singapore, have
regard to, and give such weight as the LTA considers appropriate to,
all of the following matters:

    (a) the person’s relevant knowledge, competency and
         experience;

    (b) any evidence of the exercise of any power under section 39
         in relation to the person —

    (i) for committing an offence under this Act; or

    (ii) for contravening any notice or direction given under
         this Act;

    (c) any conviction for committing —

    (i) an offence under Part 5 of the Road Traffic Act 1961
        or rules made under that Part in relation to buses, or
        under the Public Transport Council Act 1987,
        whether or not the offence was committed before
        22 January 2016; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            22

          (ii) any other offence, whether or not the conviction was
               in a Singapore court and whether or not the offence
               was committed before 22 January 2016.

 (4) In determining whether an applicant should be granted a Class 2
bus service licence, or whether the applicant’s Class 2 bus service
licence should be renewed, and the conditions to impose or modify,
the LTA must have regard to, and give such weight as the LTA
considers appropriate to, all of the following matters:

(a) the applicant’s ability and financial capacity to operate the
     bus services in the application in a satisfactory, safe and
     efficient manner;

(b) the suitability of the route or routes on which a bus service
     is to be provided under the licence;

          (c) the extent (if any) to which the needs of those proposed
              route or routes are already adequately and satisfactorily
              served by existing land transport facilities;

(d) the needs of the area as a whole in relation to passenger
     demand (including the provision of adequate, safe, suitable
     and efficient services, the elimination of unnecessary or
     unsatisfactory services and the provision of
     unremunerative services) and the coordination of all
     forms of passenger transport;

          (e) whether it is otherwise contrary to the public interest for
              the licence to be granted to the applicant.

 (5) To avoid doubt, the LTA is not confined to consideration of the
matters specified in subsection (2), (3) or (4) and may take into
account any other matters and evidence that may be relevant.

 (6) Without affecting subsection (1), the LTA may grant a renewal
of a bus service licence (of any class) with or without modifying the
conditions of the licence, but section 16 does not apply to or in
relation to granting a renewal of a bus service licence with
modifications to the conditions of the licence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
23  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

Validity of bus service licences

 14.—(1) Every bus service licence must state its class and be in the
form that the LTA may determine.

 (2) Every bus service licence granted or renewed under this Part
continues in force for the period specified in the licence unless it is
earlier revoked or suspended under section 39.

Conditions of bus service licences

 15.—(1) In granting a bus service licence to any person, the LTA
may impose any conditions that the LTA considers requisite or
expedient having regard to the purposes of this Act.

 (2) In particular, in granting a Class 1 bus service licence to a bus
operator, the LTA may impose conditions —

       (a) relating to the use and deployment of the buses managed
            by the licensed bus operator in operating the regular route
            service or services in the licence;

       (b) relating to the safety and security of passengers of buses in
            the provision of the regular route service or services in the
            licence, and other persons using or engaged in work on
            those buses;

       (c) relating to the conduct of the employees, agents and
            contractors of the licensed bus operator;

       (d) requiring the provision of a performance bond, guarantee
            or any other form of security of an amount and on any
            terms and conditions that the LTA may determine —

               (i) to secure compliance by the licensed bus operator
                   with any condition attached to the licence; or

              (ii) to meet any financial penalty arising out of any
                   proceedings under section 39 with a view to
                   regulatory action started or likely to start against
                   the licensed bus operator,

       (d) or both;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            24

          (e) requiring the licensed bus operator itself to deal with any
              plague or epidemic, fire, flood, earthquake or disaster
              (natural or otherwise) or any other public emergency; or

          (f) requiring the licensed bus operator to undergo (at its own
              cost) any audit that the LTA may require to ascertain that
              licensee’s compliance with —

          (i) the provisions of this Act or a code of practice
              applicable to the licensed bus operator;

          (ii) the conditions of the Class 1 bus service licence
               granted to that licensed bus operator; or

          (iii) a direction given under section 38.

 (3) An audit mentioned in subsection (2)(f) may be carried out only
by authorised officers or other officers of the LTA or qualified
individuals approved by the LTA for the purpose.

 (4) In particular, in granting a Class 2 bus service licence to a bus
operator, the LTA may impose conditions relating to —

(a) the safety and security of passengers of the bus service and
     other persons who use the buses;

(b) the operating hours, route, bus stopping points and other
     activities of the bus service connected with a safe and
     secure operation;

          (c) the prevention of racing, cutting in and dangerous
              competition with other vehicles on the route;

(d) requirements that the licensed bus operator must prepare
     itself to deal with any plague or epidemic, fire, flood,
     earthquake or disaster (natural or otherwise) or any other
     public emergency; or

          (e) the provision of a performance bond, guarantee or any
              other form of security, of an amount and on any terms and
              conditions that the LTA may determine —

          (i) to secure compliance by the licensed bus operator
              with any condition attached to the licence; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
25                Bus Services Industry Act 2015              2020 Ed.

    (ii) to meet any financial penalty arising out of any
         proceedings under section 39 with a view to
         regulatory action started or likely to start against
         the licensed bus operator,

    (e) or both.

Modifying conditions of bus service licence

 16.—(1) Subject to this section, it is lawful for the LTA to modify
the conditions of a bus service licence without compensating the
licensed bus operator concerned.

 (2) Before modifying any conditions of a bus service licence, the
LTA must give notice to the licensed bus operator holding that
licence —

       (a) stating that the LTA proposes to make the modification in
            the manner as specified in the notice; and

       (b) specifying the time (being at least 14 days after the date of
            service of the notice on the licensed bus operator) within
            which the licensed bus operator may make written
            representation to the LTA with respect to the proposed
            modification.

 (3) Upon receiving any written representation mentioned in
subsection (2), the LTA must consider that representation and may —

       (a) reject the representation;

       (b) amend the proposed modification in such manner as the
            LTA thinks fit having regard to the representation; or

       (c) withdraw the proposed modification.

 (4) Where —

       (a) the LTA rejects any written representation under
            subsection (3)(a);

       (b) the LTA amends any proposed modification to the
            conditions of the licence under subsection (3)(b); or

       (c) no written representation is received by the LTA within the
            time specified under subsection (2)(b), or any written

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            26

          representation made under that subsection is subsequently
          withdrawn, and the licensed bus operator has not given
          immediate effect to the modification,

the LTA must issue a written direction to the licensed bus operator
concerned requiring the licensed bus operator, within the time
specified by the LTA, to give effect to the modification as specified in
the notice under subsection (2) or as amended by the LTA under
subsection (3), as the case may be.

Restriction on transfer and surrender of bus service licence

 17.—(1) A bus service licence, and any right, benefit or privilege
under the licence, is not transferable or assignable to any other person
unless —

       (a) the licence contains a condition authorising the transfer or
            assignment; and

       (b) the LTA consents in writing to the transfer or assignment.

 (2) Any consent under subsection (1) may be given subject to
compliance with any conditions that the LTA thinks fit to impose,
which may, subject to section 16, include modifying, or requiring or
otherwise providing for the making of modifications to, the
conditions of the licence.

 (3) A transfer or an assignment, or purported transfer or
assignment, of a bus service licence, or of any right, benefit or
privilege under the licence, is void and of no effect —

       (a) if the licence is not capable of transfer or assignment;

       (b) if the transfer or assignment, or purported transfer or
            assignment, is in breach of a condition of the licence; or

       (c) if there has been, before the transfer or assignment or
            purported transfer or assignment, a contravention of a
            condition subject to compliance with which the consent
            required by subsection (1) is given.

 (4) Every bus service licence is not capable of being surrendered
without the written consent of the LTA, and any surrender or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
27  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

purported surrender of a bus service licence is void if it is without that
written consent.

 Division 2 — Special restrictions for Class 1 bus service licences

Change in management of Class 1 bus service licence

 18. It is a condition of every Class 1 bus service licence that the
licensed bus operator to whom the licence is granted must notify the
LTA of —

       (a) if the licensed bus operator is a company — the resignation
            of any director of the company within the prescribed period
            after the date of resignation; or

       (b) if the licensed bus operator is a partnership, limited
            liability partnership or company — the death of any of
            its partners or directors within the prescribed period after
            the date the licensed bus operator becomes aware of that
            death.

Appointment and removal of chief executive officer, director,
etc.

 19.—(1) A bus operator holding a Class 1 bus service licence that is
a company, limited liability partnership or other body corporate must
not —

       (a) appoint or re-appoint an individual as its chief executive
            officer, or the chairperson of its board of directors or any of
            its directors; or

       (b) remove its chief executive officer or the chairperson of its
            board of directors or any of its directors,

unless the licensee has obtained the prior written approval of the LTA.

 (1A) A person must not be appointed as a manager of, or become a
partner in, a limited liability partnership that is a bus operator holding
a Class 1 bus service licence, unless the licensee has obtained the
prior written approval of the LTA.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            28

 (2) A person must not become a partner in a partnership that is a bus
operator holding a Class 1 bus service licence unless the person has
obtained the prior written approval of the LTA.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 (2A) The LTA may —

(a) grant an approval under this section subject to any
     conditions that the LTA considers appropriate to impose;
     and

      (b) at any time add to, vary or revoke any condition so
           imposed.

                                                                             [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

(3) Where a person —

(a) is appointed or re-appointed by a bus operator holding a
     Class 1 bus service licence as its chief executive officer, its
     director or the chairperson of its board of directors, in
     contravention of subsection (1);

(b) is removed as the chief executive officer or the chairperson
     of the board of directors or any of its directors, in
     contravention of subsection (1); or

       (c) is appointed a manager of or becomes a partner in a limited
            liability partnership in contravention of subsection (1A), or
            becomes a partner in a partnership in contravention of
            subsection (2),

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

the LTA may issue a direction to the licensee to do as follows
(whichever is applicable), and the licensee must comply with that
direction:

(d) to remove that individual from the individual’s
     appointment as the chief executive officer or a director
     or the chairperson of the board of directors of the licensee;

          (e) to reinstate the individual as the chief executive officer or a
              director or the chairperson of the board of directors of the
              licensee; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
29  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

        (f) to remove that manager or partner.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 (4) This section has effect despite the provisions of any other
written law and the provisions of the memorandum or articles of
association, limited liability partnership, partnership contract or other
constitution, of the bus operator holding the Class 1 bus service
licence.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 (5) Nothing in subsection (3) is to be taken as depriving a person
who is removed under that subsection of compensation or damages
payable to the person in respect of the termination of the person’s
appointment as a chief executive officer, director or chairperson of
the board of directors or the person’s removal as a manager or partner.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 (6) This section does not apply to or in relation to any bus operator
holding a Class 1 bus service licence that has been designated as a
designated operating entity, starting on its effective designation date
and while it remains so designated.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Restrictions on acquisition of essential operating assets

 20.—(1) A person must not acquire, on or after 22 January 2016,
any essential operating asset for regular route services, or an interest
in such an essential operating asset (whether or not the acquisition is
by way of the enforcement of a loan security), unless —

       (a) the person is a public bus operator holding a Class 1 bus
            service licence authorised to operate those regular route
            services; or

       (b) the LTA consents in writing to that acquisition.

 (2) Any acquisition, or a purported acquisition of any essential
operating asset for all or part of any regular route services, or of an
interest in such an essential operating asset, in contravention of
subsection (1) is void.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            30

 (3) In this section, “essential operating asset”, in relation to any
regular route service in a public bus services contract, means any bus,
plant, equipment, machinery or other property which —

(a) is used or intended to be used (and whether or not it is also
     used for other purposes) by a public bus operator holding a
     Class 1 bus service licence to provide the regular route
     services under that public bus services contract;

(b) makes up part of the public bus system and is essential to
     the continuity of the regular route services under that
     public bus services contract; or

          (c) is designated an essential operating asset by or under that
              public bus services contract.

Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc., of bus operators
holding Class 1 bus service licences

 21.—(1) Despite any other written law —

       (a) a bus operator holding a Class 1 bus service licence cannot
            be wound up voluntarily without the consent of the LTA;

       (b) a person must not make any application under section 210
            of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the Insolvency,
            Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to a bus
            operator holding a Class 1 bus service licence, unless that
            person has served 14 days’ notice in writing of that
            person’s intention to make that application on the LTA;

       (c) no judicial management order under Part 7 of the
            Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 may
            be made in relation to a bus operator holding a Class 1 bus
            service licence without the consent of the LTA;

       (d) no interim judicial manager or judicial manager may be
            appointed under section 94 of the Insolvency,
            Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in respect of a
            bus operator holding a Class 1 bus service licence without
            the consent of the LTA;

       (e) a person must not take any step to enforce any security over
            the property of a bus operator holding a Class 1 bus service

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
31  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    licence unless that person has served 14 days’ notice in
    writing of that person’s intention to take that step on the
    LTA; and

    (f) a person must not take any step to execute or enforce any
        judgment or order of court obtained against a bus operator
        holding a Class 1 bus service licence unless that person has
        served 14 days’ notice in writing of that person’s intention
        to take that step on the LTA.

(2) The LTA must be a party to —

    (a) any proceedings relating to the making of an order under
         section 210 of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the
         Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
         relation to a bus operator holding a Class 1 bus service
         licence;

    (b) any proceedings relating to the making of a judicial
         management order under Part 7 of the Insolvency,
         Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to a
         bus operator holding a Class 1 bus service licence; and

    (c) any proceedings under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
        Dissolution Act 2018 relating to the winding up of the
        affairs of a bus operator holding a Class 1 bus service
        licence.

 (3) A court must, when deciding any proceedings mentioned in
subsection (2), take into consideration any representations made by
the LTA in those proceedings.

 (4) This section does not apply to or in relation to any bus operator
holding a Class 1 bus service licence that has been designated as a
designated operating entity, starting on its effective designation date
and while it remains so designated.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            32

          PART 4

           LICENSING OF BUS DEPOT OR
          BUS INTERCHANGE OPERATORS

Unauthorised operation of bus depots or bus interchanges

 22.—(1) A person must not operate in Singapore a bus depot or bus
interchange unless —

(a) the person is authorised by —

          (i) a bus depot licence to operate the bus depot; or

          (ii) a bus interchange licence to operate the bus
               interchange;

(b) the person is exempt from this section by or under this Act;

          (c) the person is the LTA; or

(d) the person (called in this Act a bus depot or interchange
     subcontractor) is authorised to do so by contract with a
     person referred to in paragraph (a) or (b).

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $500 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Application for bus depot licence or bus interchange licence

 23.—(1) An application for a bus depot licence or bus interchange
licence must be made to the LTA in accordance with this section.

 (2) An application for a bus depot licence or bus interchange
licence must —

       (a) be in the form and manner that the LTA may determine;
            and

       (b) be accompanied by an application fee, if prescribed.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
33  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

 (3) The LTA may refuse to consider an application for a bus depot
licence or bus interchange licence that is incomplete or not made in
accordance with this section.

Grant of bus depot licence or bus interchange licence

 24.—(1) After considering any application for a licence under
section 23, the LTA may —

       (a) on payment of a licence fee (if prescribed), grant the bus
            depot licence or bus interchange licence applied for; or

       (b) refuse to grant the bus depot licence or bus interchange
            licence, as the case may be.

 (2) In deciding whether an applicant should be granted a bus depot
licence or bus interchange licence under subsection (1), and the
conditions to impose or modify, the LTA must have regard to, and
give such weight as the LTA considers appropriate to, all of the
following matters:

       (a) whether the applicant is or is not a bus operator holding a
            Class 1 bus service licence;

       (b) whether the applicant does not have (or is unlikely to have)
            the financial capacity and ability to operate and maintain
            an adequate, satisfactory, safe and efficient bus depot or
            bus interchange at a bus depot site or bus interchange site
            (as the case may be) specified in the application;

       (c) whether the bus depot site or bus interchange site is fit to be
            used as a bus depot or bus interchange, as the case may be;

       (d) whether the applicant and, where necessary, whether —

               (i) every member of the board of directors or committee
                   or board of trustees or other governing body of an
                   applicant which is a company, limited liability
                   partnership or other body corporate; or

              (ii) every partner of an applicant that is a partnership,

       (d) is a suitable person to be involved in the management or
            operation of the bus depot or bus interchange in the
            application;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            34

          (e) whether it is otherwise contrary to the public interest for
              the bus depot licence or bus interchange licence (as the
              case may be) to be granted to the applicant.

 (3) For the purpose of determining whether or not a person referred
to in subsection (2)(d) is a suitable person to be involved in the
management or operation of a bus depot or bus interchange, the LTA
must, having regard to the degree and nature of the person’s proposed
involvement in the public bus system in Singapore, have regard to,
and give such weight as the LTA considers appropriate to, all of the
following matters:

(a) the person’s relevant knowledge, competency and
     experience;

(b) any evidence of the exercise of any power under section 39
     in relation to the person —

          (i) for committing an offence under this Act; or

          (ii) for contravening any notice or direction given under
               this Act;

          (c) any conviction for committing —

          (i) an offence under Part 5 of the Road Traffic Act 1961
              or rules made under that Part in relation to buses,
              whether or not the offence was committed before
              22 January 2016; or

          (ii) any other offence, whether or not the conviction was
               in a Singapore court and whether or not the offence
               was committed before 22 January 2016.

 (4) To avoid doubt, the LTA is not confined to consideration of the
matters specified in subsection (2) or (3) and may take into account
any other matters and evidence that may be relevant.

Validity and renewal of bus depot licence or bus interchange
licence

 25.—(1) Every bus depot licence or bus interchange licence
granted under this Act is to be in the form that the LTA may
determine.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
35  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

 (2) Every bus depot licence or bus interchange licence granted or
renewed under this Act continues in force for the period specified in
the licence, unless it is earlier revoked or suspended under section 39.

 (3) The LTA may, on the application by a licensee holding a bus
depot licence or bus interchange licence to renew the licence —

    (a) grant a renewal of the bus depot licence or bus interchange
         licence on payment of a renewal fee or late renewal fee (if
         prescribed) and with or without adding to, deleting from or
         varying conditions of the licence; or

    (b) refuse to renew the bus depot licence or bus interchange
         licence, as the case may be.

 (4) An application to renew a bus depot licence or bus interchange
licence must be made no later than 3 months before the date of expiry
of the licence (or the longer period prescribed in substitution), unless
otherwise allowed by the LTA in any particular case which is to be
treated as a late renewal application.

 (5) Sections 23 and 24 apply, with the necessary modifications, to
every application to renew a bus depot licence or bus interchange
licence as if the application is for a grant of the bus depot licence or
bus interchange licence.

 (6) To avoid doubt, section 27 does not apply to or in relation to
granting a renewal of a bus depot licence or bus interchange licence
with additional, deleted or varied conditions of the licence.

Conditions of bus depot licence or bus interchange licence

 26.—(1) In granting a bus depot licence or bus interchange licence
to any person (called in this section the licensee), the LTA may
impose any conditions that the LTA considers requisite or expedient
having regard to the purposes of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), a bus depot licence to operate a
bus depot, or a bus interchange licence to operate a bus interchange,
may include conditions relating to —

       (a) the extent, hours and general level of service at the bus
            depot or bus interchange;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            36

(b) the maintenance and operation of the bus depot or bus
     interchange and any equipment therein;

          (c) the security criteria for selecting persons engaged in any
              work at the bus depot or bus interchange;

(d) the safety and security of persons using, or at work at, the
     bus depot or bus interchange;

          (e) requirements that the licensee must prepare itself to deal
              with any plague or epidemic, fire, flood, earthquake or
              disaster (natural or otherwise) or any other public
              emergency;

          (f) the terms and conditions that the licensee can impose on
              the use of the bus depot or bus interchange —

          (i) by employees, agents, tenants and contractors of the
              licensee;

          (ii) by licensed bus operators; or

          (iii) by members of the public; and

(g) in the case of a bus interchange —

          (i) the provision of travel information systems and
              directional signs for the purpose of ensuring
              integration of the bus interchange with transport
              services and facilities and developments surrounding
              the bus interchange so as to enhance passenger
              services; and

          (ii) the maximum fee that the licensee may charge for the
               use of the bus interchange by bus operators.

Modifying conditions of bus depot licence or bus interchange
licence

 27.—(1) Subject to this section, it is lawful for the LTA to modify
the conditions of a bus depot licence or bus interchange licence
without compensating the licensee to whom the licence is granted
(called in this section the licensee).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
37           Bus Services Industry Act 2015                   2020 Ed.

 (2) Before modifying any conditions of a bus depot licence or bus
interchange licence, the LTA must give notice to the licensee holding
that licence —

    (a) stating that the LTA proposes to make the modification in
         the manner as specified in the notice; and

    (b) specifying the time (being at least 14 days after the date of
         service of the notice on the licensee) within which the
         licensee may make written representation to the LTA with
         respect to the proposed modification.

 (3) Upon receiving any written representation mentioned in
subsection (2), the LTA must consider that representation and may —

    (a) reject the representation;

    (b) amend the proposed modification in such manner as the
         LTA thinks fit having regard to the representation; or

    (c) withdraw the proposed modification.

(4) Where —

    (a) the LTA rejects any written representation under
         subsection (3)(a);

    (b) the LTA amends any proposed modification to the
         conditions of the licence under subsection (3)(b); or

    (c) no written representation is received by the LTA within the
        time specified under subsection (2)(b), or any written
        representation made under that subsection is subsequently
        withdrawn, and the licensee has not given immediate effect
        to the modification,

the LTA must issue a written direction to the licensee in question
requiring the licensee, within the time specified by the LTA, to give
effect to the modification as specified in the notice under
subsection (2) or as amended by the LTA under subsection (3), as
the case may be.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            38

Restriction on transfer and surrender of bus depot licence or
bus interchange licence

 28.—(1) A bus depot licence or bus interchange licence, and any
right, benefit or privilege under the licence, is not transferable or
assignable to any other person unless —

(a) the licence contains a condition authorising the transfer or
     assignment; and

(b) the LTA consents in writing to the transfer or assignment.

 (2) Any consent under subsection (1) may be given subject to
compliance with any conditions that the LTA thinks fit to impose,
which may, subject to section 27, include modifying, or requiring or
otherwise providing for the making of modifications to, the
conditions of the licence.

 (3) A transfer or an assignment, or purported transfer or
assignment, of a bus depot licence or bus interchange licence, or of
any right, benefit or privilege under the licence, is void and of no
effect —

(a) if the licence is not capable of transfer or assignment;

(b) the transfer or assignment, or purported transfer or
     assignment, is in breach of a condition of the licence; or

          (c) if there has been, before the transfer or assignment or
              purported transfer or assignment, a contravention of a
              condition subject to compliance with which the consent
              required by subsection (1) is given.

 (4) Every bus depot licence or bus interchange licence is not
capable of being surrendered without the written consent of the LTA,
and any surrender or purported surrender of such a licence is void if it
is without that written consent.

                              PART 4A
          CONTROL OF DESIGNATED ENTITIES

                                                                    [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
39  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    Division 1 — Preliminary

Extraterritorial application of this Part

 28A.—(1) Except where otherwise expressly provided, this Part
applies to, and in relation to —

    (a) all individuals, whether resident in Singapore or not and
         whether citizens of Singapore or not; and

    (b) all bodies corporate or unincorporate, whether
         incorporated, formed, established, or carrying on
         business in Singapore or not.

 (2) Every person who, outside Singapore, commits an act or
omission that, if committed in Singapore, would constitute an offence
under this Part, is deemed to commit the act or omission in Singapore
and may be proceeded against, charged, tried and punished
accordingly.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Interpretation of this Part

 28B.—(1) In this Part —

      “5% controller”, in relation to a designated entity, means a
         person who, alone or together with that person’s associates —

              (a) holds 5% or more, but less than 25%, of the total
                   equity interests in that designated entity; or

              (b) is in a position to control 5% or more, but less than
                   25%, of the voting power in that designated entity;

      “25% controller”, in relation to a designated entity, means a
         person who, alone or together with that person’s associates —

              (a) holds 25% or more, but less than 50%, of the total
                   equity interests in that designated entity; or

              (b) is in a position to control 25% or more, but less than
                   50%, of the voting power in that designated entity;

      “50% controller”, in relation to a designated entity, means a
         person who, alone or together with that person’s associates —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            40

          (a) holds 50% or more, but less than 75%, of the total
               equity interests in that designated entity; or

          (b) is in a position to control 50% or more, but less than
               75%, of the voting power in that designated entity;

“75% controller”, in relation to a designated entity, means a
   person who, alone or together with that person’s associates —

          (a) holds 75% or more of the total equity interests in that
               designated entity; or

          (b) is in a position to control 75% or more of the voting
               power in that designated entity;

“acquisition” includes an agreement to acquire, but does not
   include —

          (a) an acquisition by will or by operation of law; or

          (b) an acquisition by way of enforcement of a loan
               security;

“arrangement” includes any formal or informal scheme,
   arrangement or understanding, and any trust whether
   express or implied;

“chief executive officer”, in relation to a designated entity or the
   trustee-manager of a designated entity, means an individual
   (by whatever name called) who —

          (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
               arrangement with, the designated entity or trustee-
               manager, as the case may be; and

          (b) is principally responsible for the management and
               conduct of the designated entity or trustee-manager,
               as the case may be,

          and includes any individual for the time being performing all
          or any of the functions of a chief executive officer;

“control” includes control as a result of, or by means of, any
   trust, agreement, arrangement, understanding or practice,
   whether or not having legal or equitable force and whether or
   not based on legal or equitable rights;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
41  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    “decrease”, in relation to the holding of equity interests, includes
       a decrease to a point of nil;

    “equity interest” —

    (a) in relation to a corporation — means a voting share in
         that corporation;

    (b) in relation to an entity other than a corporation —
         means any right or interest, whether legal or
         equitable, in that entity (by whatever name called)
         which gives the holder of that right or interest voting
         power in that entity; and

    (c) in relation to a business trust — means a unit in that
        business trust;

    “increase”, in relation to the holding of equity interests, includes
       an increase from a starting point of nil;

    “indirect controller”, in relation to a designated entity, means
       any person, whether acting alone or together with any other
       person, and whether with or without holding equity interests
       or controlling the voting power in the designated entity —

    (a) whose directions, instructions or wishes —

    (i) the directors or other officers of the designated
        entity; or

    (ii) the trustee-manager (in the case of a designated
         entity that is a business trust),

    (a) is accustomed or under an obligation, whether formal
         or informal, to act in accordance with; or

    (b) who is in a position to determine the policy of the
         designated entity,

    but does not include —

    (c) any person who is —

    (i) a director or other officer of the designated
        entity; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            42

          (ii) the trustee‑manager (in the case of a designated
               entity that is a business trust); or

          (d) any person whose directions, instructions or
               wishes —

          (i) the directors or other officers of the designated
              entity; or

          (ii) the trustee-manager (in the case of a designated
               entity that is a business trust),

          (d) is accustomed to act in accordance with by reason
               only that the acting is on advice given by the person
               in that person’s professional capacity;

“liquidator” includes the Official Receiver when acting as the
   liquidator of a corporation;

“officer”, in relation to a corporation, includes —

          (a) a director or secretary of, or a person employed in an
               executive capacity by, the corporation;

          (b) any receiver or manager, or any receiver and
               manager, of any part of the undertaking of the
               corporation, appointed under a power contained in
               any instrument or by the General Division of the
               High Court or by creditors;

          (c) any liquidator of the corporation appointed in a
              voluntary winding up or by the General Division of
              the High Court or by creditors; and

          (d) any judicial manager of the corporation appointed
               under Part 7 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
               Dissolution Act 2018;

“Official Receiver” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
   Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018;

“related corporation”, in relation to a corporation, means another
   corporation that is deemed under section 28D(2) to be related
   to that corporation;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
43  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    “share”, in relation to a corporation, means a share in the share
       capital of the corporation and includes stock into which all or
       any of the share capital of the corporation has been
       converted;

    “treasury share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
       Companies Act 1967;

    “trustee‑manager” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
       Business Trusts Act 2004;

    “unit” has the meaning given by section 2 of the Business Trusts
       Act 2004;

    “unitholder” means a person who holds units in a business trust;

    “unregistered company” has the meaning given by
       section 245(1) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
       Dissolution Act 2018;

    “voting share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
       Companies Act 1967 but does not include a treasury share.

 (2) A reference in this Part to the control of a percentage of the
voting power in a designated entity is to the control, whether direct or
indirect, of that percentage of the total number of votes that might be
cast in —

    (a) a general meeting of the designated entity; or

    (b) in the case of a designated entity that is a business trust — a
         general meeting of the unitholders of the business trust.

 (3) In ascertaining a person’s control of the percentage of the total
number of votes that might be cast at a general meeting mentioned in
subsection (2), the number of votes that the person is entitled to cast at
the meeting by reason of having been appointed a proxy or
representative to vote at the meeting is to be disregarded.

(4) In this Part —

    (a) a reference to the chairperson of a board of directors
         includes an individual (by whatever name called) acting in
         that capacity;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            44

(b) a reference to the business or operations of an entity that is
     a business trust is to the business or operations (as the case
     may be) carried on by the trustee-manager of the business
     trust on behalf of the business trust; and

          (c) a reference to a condition imposed by the LTA includes a
              condition added or varied by the LTA.

                                                                              [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

What holding an equity interest means

 28C.—(1) In this Part, a person holds an equity interest if the
person —

       (a) has or is deemed to have an equity interest in accordance
            with subsections (2) to (8); or

       (b) otherwise has a legal or equitable interest in that equity
            interest,

except for any interest prescribed under section 49 as an interest that
is to be disregarded.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), a person has an equity interest if the
person has authority (whether formal or informal, or express or
implied) to dispose of, or to exercise control over the disposal of, that
equity interest.

 (3) It is immaterial that the authority of a person to dispose of, or to
exercise control over the disposal of, the equity interest mentioned in
subsection (2) is, or is capable of being made, subject to restraint or
restriction.

 (4) It is immaterial, for the purposes of determining whether a
person has an equity interest, that the interest cannot be related to a
particular share, an interest or a right that gives its holder voting
power, or a unit of a business trust, as the case may be.

 (5) A person is deemed to have an equity interest if —

       (a) any property held in trust consists of or includes the equity
            interest; and

       (b) the person knows, or has reasonable grounds for believing,
            that the person has an interest under that trust.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
45  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

 (6) A person is also deemed to have an equity interest if that
person —

    (a) has entered into a contract to purchase the equity interest;

    (b) has a right, otherwise than by reason of having an interest
         under a trust, to have the equity interest transferred to (or to
         the order of) that person, whether the right is exercisable
         presently or in the future and whether on the fulfilment of a
         condition or not;

    (c) has the right to acquire the equity interest under an option,
        whether the right is exercisable presently or in the future
        and whether on the fulfilment of a condition or not; or

    (d) is entitled (otherwise than by reason of having been
         appointed a proxy or representative) to vote at —

    (i) a general meeting of the designated entity; or

    (ii) in the case of a designated entity that is a business
         trust — a general meeting of the unitholders of the
         business trust,

    (d) to exercise or control the exercise of a right attached to the
         equity interest, not being an equity interest in which that
         person has a legal or equitable interest.

 (7) A person is not to be deemed as not having an equity interest by
reason only that the person has the equity interest jointly with another
person.

(8) An equity interest is not to be disregarded by reason only of —

    (a) its remoteness;

    (b) the manner in which it arose; or

    (c) the fact that the exercise of a right conferred by the equity
        interest is, or is capable of being made, subject to restraint
        or restriction.

                                                                        [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            46

Meanings of “associate”, “related corporation”, “subsidiary”
and “holding company”

 28D.—(1) In this Part, a person (A) is an associate of another person
(B) if —

(a) A is the spouse, or a parent, step-parent or remoter lineal
     ancestor, or a son, stepson, daughter, stepdaughter or
     remoter issue, or a brother or sister, of B;

(b) A is a partner of B in a partnership or limited liability
     partnership;

          (c) A is a corporation of which B is an officer;

(d) B is a corporation of which A is an officer;

          (e) A and B are officers of the same corporation;

          (f) A is an employee of B;

(g) B is an employee of A;

(h) A and B are employees of the same employer;

          (i) A is the trustee of a discretionary trust where B (or another
              person who is an associate of B by virtue of any paragraph,
              except this paragraph and paragraphs (j) and (r)) benefits,
              or is capable (whether by exercise of a power of
              appointment or otherwise) of benefitting, under the trust,
              either directly or through interposed entities or trusts;

          (j) B is the trustee of a discretionary trust where A (or another
              person who is an associate of A by virtue of any paragraph,
              except this paragraph and paragraphs (i) and (r)) benefits,
              or is capable (whether by exercise of a power of
              appointment or otherwise) of benefitting, under the trust,
              either directly or through interposed entities or trusts;

          (k) A is a corporation whose directors are accustomed or under
              an obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
              accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of
              B or, where B is a corporation, of the directors of B;

          (l) B is a corporation whose directors are accustomed or under
              an obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
47  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of A
    or, where A is a corporation, of the directors of A;

    (m) A is a person who is accustomed or under an obligation,
         whether formal or informal, to act in accordance with the
         directions, instructions or wishes of B or, where B is a
         corporation, of the directors of B;

    (n) B is a person who is accustomed or under an obligation,
         whether formal or informal, to act in accordance with the
         directions, instructions or wishes of A or, where A is a
         corporation, of the directors of A;

    (o) A is a related corporation of B;

    (p) A is a corporation in which B, alone or together with other
         associates of B as described in paragraphs (b) to (o), is in a
         position to control at least 20% of the voting power in A;

    (q) B is a corporation in which A, alone or together with other
         associates of A as described in paragraphs (b) to (o), is in a
         position to control at least 20% of the voting power in B;

    (r) A is a person with whom B enters, or proposes to enter, into
        an agreement or arrangement (whether oral or in writing
        and whether express or implied) that relates to any of the
        following matters:

    (i) A and B being in a position, by acting together, to
        control any of the voting power in a designated
        entity;

    (ii) A and B acting together with respect to the
         acquisition, holding or disposal of equity interests
         or other interests in a designated entity;

    (iii) the power of A and B, by acting together, to appoint
          or remove —

    (A) a director of a designated entity; or

    (B) in the case of a designated entity that is a
         business trust — a director of the trustee-
         manager of the business trust;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            48

          (iv) the situation where one or more of the directors of —

          (A) a designated entity; or

          (B) in the case of a designated entity that is a
               business trust — the trustee-manager of the
               business trust,

          (iv) are accustomed or under an obligation (whether
               formal or informal) to act in accordance with the
               directions, instructions or wishes of A and B acting
               together;

          (s) A controls more than half of the voting power of a holding
              company of B;

          (t) B controls more than half of the voting power of a holding
              company of A; or

(u) A is related to B in such other manner as may be prescribed
     by regulations made under section 49.

 (2) A corporation (A) and another corporation (B) are deemed to be
related to each other for the purposes of this section where A is —

(a) the holding company of B;

(b) a subsidiary of B; or

          (c) a subsidiary of the holding company of B.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), a corporation (A) is, subject
to subsection (5), deemed to be a subsidiary of another corporation
(B) if —

(a) B controls the composition of the board of directors of A;

(b) B controls more than half of the voting power of A; or

          (c) A is a subsidiary of any corporation which is B’s subsidiary.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (3), the composition of A’s board
of directors is deemed to be controlled by B if B, by the exercise of a
power exercisable by it without the consent or concurrence of any
other person, can appoint or remove all or a majority of the directors,
and for the purposes of this provision, B is deemed to have power to
make such an appointment if —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
49  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    (a) a person cannot be appointed as a director without the
         exercise in the person’s favour by B of such a power; or

    (b) a person’s appointment as a director follows necessarily
         from that person being a director or other officer of B.

 (5) In determining whether one corporation (A) is the subsidiary of
another corporation (B) —

    (a) any shares held or power exercisable by B in a fiduciary
         capacity is treated as not held or exercisable by B;

    (b) subject to paragraphs (c) and (d), any shares held or power
         exercisable —

    (i) by any person as a nominee for B (except if B is
        concerned only in a fiduciary capacity); or

    (ii) by, or by a nominee for, a subsidiary of B, not being a
         subsidiary which is concerned only in a fiduciary
         capacity,

    (b) is to be treated as being held or exercisable by B;

    (c) any shares held or power exercisable by any person by
        virtue of the provisions of any debentures of A, or of a trust
        deed for securing any issue of such debentures, is to be
        disregarded; and

    (d) any shares held or power exercisable by, or by a nominee
         for, B or its subsidiary (not being held or exercisable as
         mentioned in paragraph (c)) is to be treated as not held or
         exercisable by B if the ordinary business of B or its
         subsidiary (as the case may be) includes the lending of
         money and the shares are so held or power is so exercisable
         by way of security only for the purposes of a transaction
         entered into in the ordinary course of that business.

 (6) A reference in this section to the holding company of a
corporation is to a corporation of which the last mentioned
corporation is a subsidiary.

 (7) For the purposes of this section, the Depository is not to be
regarded as a holding company of a corporation by reason only of the
shares it holds in that corporation as a bare trustee.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            50

 (8) Regulations made under section 49 may provide that any person
or class of persons are not associates of another person for the
purposes of any provision of this Part.

(9) In this section —

“Depository” has the meaning given by section 81SF of the
   Securities and Futures Act 2001;

“officer”, in relation to a corporation, means a director or
   secretary of, or any person employed in an executive capacity
   by, the corporation.

                       [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Designation of designated operating entities and designated
equity interest holders

 28E.—(1) The LTA may by notification in the Gazette —

       (a) designate an entity that provides any essential transport
            service in Singapore, or any business trust through which
            any essential transport service is provided in Singapore, as
            a designated operating entity; or

       (b) designate an entity that holds any equity interest in a
            designated operating entity as a designated equity interest
            holder,

if the LTA considers that the designation is necessary in the public
interest.

 (2) The LTA must inform the Minister of the LTA’s decision to
designate an entity before publishing the notification under
subsection (1) but the failure to do so does not invalidate the
designation.

 (3) The notification under subsection (1) —

       (a) must specify the date on which the designation takes effect;
            and

       (b) must be published in the Gazette at least 14 days before the
            date that the designation takes effect.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
51  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

 (4) The LTA may by notification in the Gazette cancel a designation
at any time.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

              Division 2 — Control of designated entities

Notice to LTA by 5% controller of designated entity

 28F.—(1) If a person becomes a 5% controller of a designated
entity on or after the effective designation date as a result of an
increase in the holding of equity interest, or in the voting power
controlled, by that person or any associate of that person, that person
must within 7 days after becoming the 5% controller give written
notice to the LTA of that fact.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

 (3) In any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (1), it is a
defence for the accused to prove that the accused —

       (a) was not aware of the contravention when it occurred; and

       (b) notified the LTA of the contravention within a period of 14
            days after becoming aware of the contravention.

 (4) In any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (1), it is
also a defence for the accused to prove that, though the accused was
aware of the contravention —

       (a) the contravention occurred as a result of an increase in the
            holding of equity interest, or in the voting power
            controlled, by any of the associates of the accused, in the
            designated entity;

       (b) the accused has no agreement or arrangement (whether
            oral or in writing and whether express or implied) with that
            associate with respect to the acquisition, holding or
            disposal of equity interests or other interests, or under
            which they act together in exercising their voting power, in
            relation to the designated entity; and

       (c) the accused notified the LTA of the contravention within a
            period of 7 days after the contravention.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            52

 (5) Except as provided in subsections (3) and (4), it is not a defence
in any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (1) to prove that
the accused did not intend to or did not knowingly contravene
subsection (1).

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Approvals of LTA in relation to equity interests and control of
voting power in designated entities in certain cases

 28G.—(1) Except with the prior written approval of the LTA, a
person must not —

       (a) as a result of an increase in the holding of equity interest, or
            in the voting power controlled, by that person or any
            associate of that person, become a 25% controller, 50%
            controller or 75% controller of a designated entity on or
            after the effective designation date; or

       (b) as a result of a decrease in the holding of equity interest, or
            in the voting power controlled, by that person or any
            associate of that person, cease to be a 25% controller, 50%
            controller or 75% controller of a designated entity on or
            after the effective designation date.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the transaction through which a
person becomes a 25% controller, 50% controller or 75% controller,
or ceases to be a 25% controller, 50% controller or 75% controller, is
entered into before the effective designation date.

 (3) A person must not become an indirect controller of a designated
entity on or after the effective designation date unless the person has
obtained the prior written approval of the LTA.

 (4) The LTA may approve an application under subsection (1)(a) or
(3) if the LTA is satisfied that —

       (a) the person who is to become a 25% controller, 50%
            controller, 75% controller or indirect controller of a
            designated entity and every associate of that person
            known to the LTA, are fit and proper persons;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
53  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    (b) the essential transport services provided by the following
         (whichever is applicable) will continue to be safe, reliable
         and efficient:

    (i) the designated operating entity of which the person is
        to become a 25% controller, 50% controller, 75%
        controller or indirect controller;

    (ii) the trustee‑manager of the designated operating
         entity of which the person is to become a 25%
         controller, 50% controller, 75% controller or indirect
         controller;

    (iii) in the case where the person is to become a 25%
          controller, 50% controller, 75% controller or indirect
          controller of a designated equity interest holder —
          the designated operating entity, or the trustee-
          manager of the designated operating entity, in
          relation to which the designated equity interest
          holder is so designated;

    (c) having regard to the influence of the person mentioned in
        paragraph (a) and every associate of that person known to
        the LTA, the following requirements are met:

    (i) if the designated entity is a designated operating
        entity — the designated operating entity or, if the
        designated operating entity is a business trust, its
        trustee-manager, will continue to conduct the
        business of the designated operating entity
        prudently and comply with the provisions of this Act;

    (ii) if the designated entity is a designated equity interest
         holder —

    (A) the designated operating entity in respect of
         which the designated equity interest holder is
         so designated or, if the designated operating
         entity is a business trust, its trustee-manager,
         will continue to conduct the business of the
         designated operating entity prudently and
         comply with the provisions of this Act; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            54

          (B) the designated equity interest holder or, if the
               designated equity interest holder is a business
               trust, its trustee-manager, will continue to
               comply with the provisions of this Act; and

(d) it is in the public interest to do so.

 (5) The LTA may approve an application under subsection (1)(b) if
the LTA is satisfied that —

(a) the essential transport services provided by the following
     (whichever is applicable) will continue to be safe, reliable
     and efficient:

          (i) the designated operating entity of which the person is
              a 25% controller, 50% controller or 75% controller;

          (ii) the trustee‑manager of the designated operating
               entity of which the person is a 25% controller,
               50% controller or 75% controller;

          (iii) in the case where the person is a 25% controller, 50%
                controller or 75% controller of a designated equity
                interest holder — the designated operating entity, or
                the trustee-manager of the designated operating
                entity, in relation to which the designated equity
                interest holder is so designated;

(b) in the case where the person is a 25% controller, 50%
     controller or 75% controller of a designated operating
     entity — the designated operating entity or, if the
     designated operating entity is a business trust, its trustee-
     manager, will continue to conduct the business of the
     designated operating entity prudently and comply with the
     provisions of this Act;

          (c) in the case where the person is a 25% controller, 50%
              controller or 75% controller of a designated equity interest
              holder —

          (i) the designated operating entity in respect of which
              the designated equity interest holder is so designated
              or, if the designated operating entity is a business

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
55  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    trust, its trustee-manager, will continue to conduct
    the business of the designated operating entity
    prudently and comply with the provisions of this
    Act; and

    (ii) the designated equity interest holder or, if the
         designated equity interest holder is a business trust,
         its trustee-manager, will continue to comply with the
         provisions of this Act; and

    (d) it is in the public interest to do so.

(6) The LTA may —

    (a) grant an approval under this section subject to any
         conditions that the LTA considers appropriate to impose;
         and

    (b) at any time add to, vary or revoke any condition so
         imposed.

 (7) Any condition imposed by the LTA under subsection (6) has
effect despite the provisions of any other written law or anything
contained in the memorandum or articles of association, limited
liability partnership agreement, partnership contract, trust deed or
other constitution of the designated entity in relation to which the
application for approval under subsection (1) or (3) is made.

 (8) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (3), or who fails
to comply with any condition imposed under subsection (6), shall be
guilty of an offence.

 (9) In any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (1), it is a
defence for the accused to prove that —

    (a) the accused was not aware of the contravention when it
         occurred;

    (b) the accused notified the LTA of the contravention within a
         period of 14 days after becoming aware of the
         contravention; and

    (c) if the LTA issued any direction under section 28M relating
        to the contravention —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            56

          (i) the accused complied with the direction within the
              period determined by the LTA under that section; or

          (ii) the period determined by the LTA under that section
               for compliance with the direction has not expired.

 (10) In any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (1), it is
also a defence for the accused to prove that even though the accused
was aware of the contravention —

(a) the contravention occurred as a result of an increase or a
     decrease in the holding of equity interest, or in the voting
     power controlled, by any of the associates of the accused,
     in the designated entity;

(b) the accused has no agreement or arrangement (whether
     oral or in writing and whether express or implied) with that
     associate with respect to the acquisition, holding or
     disposal of equity interests or other interests, or under
     which they act together in exercising their voting power, in
     relation to the designated entity;

          (c) the accused notified the LTA of the contravention within a
              period of 7 days after the contravention or breach; and

(d) if the LTA issued any direction under section 28M relating
     to the contravention —

          (i) the accused complied with the direction within the
              period determined by the LTA under that section; or

          (ii) the period determined by the LTA under that section
               for compliance with the direction has not expired.

 (11) In any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (3), it is a
defence for the accused to prove that —

(a) the accused was not aware of the contravention when it
     occurred;

(b) the accused notified the LTA of the contravention within a
     period of 14 days after the contravention; and

          (c) if the LTA issued any direction under section 28M relating
              to the contravention —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
57  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    (i) the accused complied with the direction within the
        period determined by the LTA under that section; or

    (ii) the period determined by the LTA under that section
         for compliance with the direction has not expired.

 (12) Except as provided in subsections (9), (10) and (11), it is not a
defence in any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (1) or
(3) to prove that the accused did not intend to or did not knowingly
contravene subsection (1) or (3).

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Appointment and removal of chief executive officer,
chairperson, director, etc., of designated entity

 28H.—(1) A licensee-designated operating entity must not, on or
after the effective designation date, appoint or remove an individual
as its chief executive officer, the chairperson of its board of directors
or any of its directors, unless the licensee-designated operating entity
has obtained the prior written approval of the LTA.

 (2) Each of the following persons must not, on or after the effective
designation date, appoint or remove an individual as its chief
executive officer or the chairperson of its board of directors unless the
person has obtained the prior written approval of the LTA:

       (a) a non-licensee-designated operating entity or, in the case of
            a non-licensee-designated operating entity that is a
            business trust, its trustee-manager;

       (b) a designated equity interest holder or, in the case of a
            designated equity interest holder that is a business trust, its
            trustee-manager.

 (3) A person must not, on or after the effective designation date, be
appointed as a manager of, or become a partner in, a limited liability
partnership that is a designated entity unless the designated entity has
obtained the prior written approval of the LTA.

 (4) A person must not, on or after the effective designation date,
become a partner in a partnership that is a designated entity unless the
person has obtained the prior written approval of the LTA.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            58

(5) The LTA may —

(a) grant an approval under this section subject to any
     conditions that the LTA considers appropriate to impose;
     and

(b) at any time add to, vary or revoke any condition so
     imposed.

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4), or
who fails to comply with any condition imposed under subsection (5),
shall be guilty of an offence.

 (7) This section has effect despite the provisions of any other
written law or anything contained in the memorandum or articles of
association, limited liability partnership agreement, partnership
contract, trust deed or other constitution, of the designated entity or
the trustee-manager of the designated entity in relation to which the
application for approval under subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4) is made.

(8) In this section —

(a) a reference to a “licensee-designated operating entity” is to
     a designated operating entity that is also —

          (i) a bus operator holding a Class 1 bus service licence;
              or

          (ii) a licensee holding a bus depot licence or bus
               interchange licence; and

(b) a reference to a “non-licensee-designated operating entity”
     is to a designated operating entity that is not a licensee-
     designated operating entity.

                                                                    [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Acquisition of business of designated operating entity as going
concern

 28I.—(1) A person must not, on or after the effective designation
date, acquire as a going concern, a designated operating entity’s
business of providing any essential transport service (or any part of
such business) unless —

       (a) the person; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
59  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    (b) the designated operating entity or, if the designated
         operating entity is a business trust, its trustee-manager,

have obtained the prior written approval of the LTA.

 (2) An application for the LTA’s approval under subsection (1) must
be —

    (a) made jointly by the persons mentioned in subsection (1)(a)
         and (b); and

    (b) made in such form and manner as the LTA may specify.

 (3) The LTA may approve an application under subsection (1) if the
LTA is satisfied that —

    (a) the person acquiring the business or part is a fit and proper
         person;

    (b) after the acquisition, the essential transport service
         mentioned in subsection (1) will continue to be safe,
         reliable and efficient;

    (c) in the case where after the acquisition, the designated
        operating entity continues to carry out part of the business
        mentioned in subsection (1) — the designated operating
        entity or, if the designated operating entity is a business
        trust, its trustee-manager, will continue to conduct the
        business of the designated operating entity prudently and
        comply with the provisions of this Act; and

    (d) it is in the public interest to do so.

(4) The LTA may —

    (a) grant an approval under this section subject to any
         conditions that the LTA considers appropriate to impose;
         and

    (b) at any time add to, vary or revoke any condition so
         imposed.

 (5) This section has effect despite the provisions of any other
written law or anything contained in the memorandum or articles of
association, limited liability partnership agreement, partnership

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            60

contract, trust deed or other constitution, of the designated operating
entity.

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), or who fails to
comply with any condition imposed under subsection (4), shall be
guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Occurrence of certain events

 28J.—(1) A designated entity or, in the case of a designated entity
that is a business trust, its trustee-manager, must notify the LTA of
any of the following agreements at least 14 days before entering into
the agreement:

       (a) in the case of a designated entity that is a designated
            operating entity — an agreement for the outsourcing of a
            material function performed by the designated operating
            entity in the provision of any essential transport service;

       (b) any agreement prescribed under section 49.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to any agreement
entered into before the expiry of 14 days after the effective
designation date.

 (3) A designated entity or, in the case of a designated entity that is a
business trust, its trustee-manager, must notify the LTA of the
occurrence of any of the following events within 7 days after
becoming aware of the occurrence:

       (a) in the case of a designated entity that is a designated
            operating entity —

               (i) any civil or criminal proceedings (whether in
                   Singapore or elsewhere) instituted against the
                   designated entity or, if the designated entity is a
                   business trust, its trustee-manager, that materially
                   impedes or impairs the operations of the designated
                   entity carried out in the course of providing any
                   essential transport service; or

              (ii) any other event or any irregularity that materially
                   impedes or impairs the operations of the designated

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
61  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    entity carried out in the course of providing any
    essential transport service;

    (b) the designated entity or, if the designated entity is a
         business trust, its trustee-manager, being or becoming, or
         being likely to become, insolvent;

    (c) the designated entity or, if the designated entity is a
        business trust, its trustee-manager —

    (i) being wound up or subject to any receivership or
        judicial management order; or

    (ii) entering into a compromise or scheme of
         arrangement;

    (d) in the case of a designated entity that is a business trust —
         the business trust being wound up or deregistered or the
         making of an application for the deregistration of the
         business trust;

    (e) any other event prescribed under section 49.

 (4) Subsection (3) does not apply where the designated entity or
trustee-manager (as the case may be) becomes aware of the
occurrence of the event before the effective designation date.

 (5) The LTA may, upon receiving a notification under
subsection (1) or (3) in relation to an agreement or the occurrence
of an event, direct the designated entity or trustee-manager in
question to submit to the LTA any information or document relating
to the agreement or event within the period specified by the LTA.

(6) A person who —

    (a) contravenes subsection (1) or (3);

    (b) fails to comply with a direction of the LTA under
         subsection (5); or

    (c) submits any false or misleading information or document
        in compliance or purported compliance with a direction of
        the LTA under subsection (5),

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                            [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            62

Duty of designated entity or trustee-manager to report changes
of equity and control of certain persons

 28K.—(1) If a designated entity or, in the case of a designated
entity that is a business trust, its trustee-manager, becomes aware
that —

(a) a person has, on or after the effective designation date,
     become a 5% controller, 25% controller, 50% controller or
     75% controller of the designated entity;

(b) a 25% controller, 50% controller or 75% controller of the
     designated entity has, on or after the effective designation
     date, ceased to be a 25% controller, 50% controller or 75%
     controller (as the case may be) of the designated entity;

          (c) a person has, on or after the effective designation date,
              become an indirect controller of the designated entity; or

(d) in a case where the designated entity is a designated
     operating entity — a person has, on or after the effective
     designation date, acquired as a going concern, the
     designated operating entity’s business of providing any
     essential transport service (or any part of such business),

the designated entity or trustee-manager (as the case may be) must
inform the LTA in writing within 7 days after becoming aware of that
fact.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc., of designated
operating entities

 28L.—(1) Despite any other written law —

       (a) a designated operating entity that is a corporation or
            limited liability partnership cannot be wound up
            voluntarily without the consent of the LTA;

       (b) a designated operating entity that is a partnership cannot be
            dissolved —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
63  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    (i) by a partner giving notice to the other partner or
        partners (as the case may be) of the partner’s
        intention to dissolve the partnership; or

    (ii) by the partners agreeing to dissolve the partnership,

    (b) without the consent of the LTA;

    (c) a designated operating entity that is a business trust cannot
        be wound up voluntarily without the consent of the LTA;

    (d) a person must not make any application under section 210
         of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the Insolvency,
         Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to a
         designated operating entity that is a corporation, unless that
         person has served 14 days’ notice in writing of that
         person’s intention to make that application on the LTA;

    (e) no judicial management order under Part 7 of the
        Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 may
        be made in relation to a designated operating entity that is a
        corporation without the consent of the LTA;

    (f) no interim judicial manager or judicial manager may be
        appointed under section 94 of the Insolvency,
        Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in respect of a
        designated operating entity that is a corporation without
        the consent of the LTA;

    (g) a person must not take any step to enforce any security
         over —

    (i) the property of a designated operating entity; or

    (ii) in the case of a designated operating entity that is a
         business trust — the trust property of the trust,

    (g) unless that person has served 14 days’ notice in writing of
         that person’s intention to take that step on the LTA; and

    (h) a person must not take any step to execute or enforce any
         judgment or order of court obtained against a designated
         operating entity unless that person has served 14 days’
         notice in writing of that person’s intention to take that step
         on the LTA.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            64

(2) The LTA must be a party to —

(a) any proceedings relating to the making of an order under
     section 210 of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the
     Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
     relation to a designated operating entity that is a
     corporation;

(b) any proceedings relating to the making of a judicial
     management order under Part 7 of the Insolvency,
     Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to a
     designated operating entity that is a corporation;

          (c) any proceedings under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
              Dissolution Act 2018 relating to the winding up of the
              affairs of a designated operating entity that is a company or
              an unregistered company;

(d) any proceedings under the Limited Liability Partnerships
     Act 2005 relating to the winding up of the affairs of a
     designated operating entity that is a limited liability
     partnership; and

          (e) any proceedings before any court for the dissolution,
              winding up or termination (as the case may be) of any
              designated operating entity that is an entity not mentioned
              in paragraph (c) or (d).

 (3) A court must, when deciding any proceedings mentioned in
subsection (2), take into consideration any representations made by
the LTA in those proceedings.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

                    Division 3 — Remedial directions
Remedial directions relating to section 28G

 28M.—(1) Subsection (2), (3) or (4) applies if —
       (a) the LTA is satisfied that a person (called in this section a
            defaulter) —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
65  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    (i) has contravened section 28G(1) or (3) or failed to
        comply with a condition imposed on that person
        under section 28G(6); or

    (ii) has provided false or misleading information or
         documents in connection with an application for
         approval under section 28G(1) or (3); or

    (b) the LTA would not have granted its approval under
         section 28G(1) or (3) had it been aware, at the time of
         approval, of circumstances relevant to a defaulter’s
         application for such approval.

 (2) Where the defaulter is a 25% controller, 50% controller or 75%
controller of the designated entity, the LTA may do any one or more
of the following:

    (a) direct the defaulter to take such steps as are necessary,
         within the period specified by the LTA, to cease to be a
         25% controller, 50% controller or 75% controller (as the
         case may be) of the designated entity;

    (b) direct the transfer or disposal of all or any of the equity
         interests in the designated entity held by the defaulter or
         any of the defaulter’s associates (called in this section and
         section 28N the section 28M(2) equity interests), within
         such time and subject to such conditions as the LTA
         considers appropriate;

    (c) restrict or prohibit the transfer or disposal of all or any of
        the section 28M(2) equity interests, subject to any
        conditions that the LTA considers appropriate;

    (d) make any other direction that the LTA considers
         appropriate.

 (3) Where, as a result of a person (called in this subsection the
transferee) acquiring any equity interests from the defaulter who is a
25% controller, 50% controller or 75% controller of the designated
entity (called in this section and section 28N the section 28M(3)
equity interests), the defaulter ceases to be a 25% controller, 50%
controller or 75% controller (as the case may be) of the designated
entity, the LTA may do one or more of the following:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            66

(a) direct the transferee to take such steps as are necessary,
     within the period specified by the LTA, to cease to hold all
     or any of the section 28M(3) equity interests;

(b) direct the defaulter to take such steps as are necessary
     within the period specified by the LTA, to resume being a
     25% controller, 50% controller or 75% controller (as the
     case may be) of the designated entity;

          (c) direct the acquisition, transfer or disposal of all or any of
              the section 28M(3) equity interests within such time and
              subject to such conditions as the LTA considers
              appropriate;

(d) restrict or prohibit the transfer or disposal of all or any of
     the section 28M(3) equity interests, subject to any
     conditions that the LTA considers appropriate;

          (e) make any other direction that the LTA considers
              appropriate.

 (4) Where the defaulter is an indirect controller of the designated
entity, the LTA may do one or both of the following:

(a) direct the defaulter, or direct the designated entity or, if the
     designated entity is a business trust, its trustee-manager, to
     take such steps as are necessary, within the period specified
     by the LTA, to cease to be such an indirect controller or to
     cause the defaulter to cease to be such an indirect
     controller;

(b) make any other direction that the LTA considers
     appropriate.

                                                                    [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Effect of remedial directions issued under section 28M, etc.

 28N.—(1) Any direction issued to a person, and any condition
imposed, under section 28M(2) or (3) take effect despite —

       (a) any other written law;

       (b) anything in any listing rules as defined in section 2(1) of
            the Securities and Futures Act 2001; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
67  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    (c) the provisions of the memorandum or articles of
        association, limited liability partnership agreement,
        partnership contract, trust deed or other constitution of
        the designated entity in question.

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), where any direction is issued
under section 28M(2) or (3), then, until the direction is carried out or
is suspended or revoked —

    (a) the voting rights in respect of the section 28M(2) equity
         interests or section 28M(3) equity interests that are subject
         to the direction are not exercisable, unless the LTA
         expressly permits those rights to be exercised;

    (b) the voting power that the person to whom the direction is
         issued controls, whether alone or together with that
         person’s associates, in the designated entity is not
         exercisable, unless the LTA expressly permits that power
         to be exercised;

    (c) no equity interest in the designated entity is to be issued or
        offered (whether by way of dividends or otherwise) in
        respect of the section 28M(2) equity interests or
        section 28M(3) equity interests that are subject to the
        direction, unless the LTA expressly permits that issue or
        offer; and

    (d) no amount may be paid (whether by way of profits, income
         or otherwise) in respect of the section 28M(2) equity
         interests or section 28M(3) equity interests that are subject
         to the direction, unless the LTA expressly authorises such
         payment.

 (3) Subsection (2)(d) does not apply in the event of the winding up,
dissolution, termination or deregistration of the designated entity.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Remedial directions relating to section 28H

 28O.—(1) Subsection (2) applies where —

       (a) an individual has been appointed or removed in
            contravention of section 28H(1) or (2), or a person has

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            68

          been appointed a manager of or becomes a partner in a
          designated entity in contravention of section 28H(3) or (4);

(b) any condition of approval imposed under section 28H(5)
     has not been complied with;

          (c) any of the following persons has provided false or
              misleading information or documents to the LTA in
              connection with an application for approval under
              section 28H(1), (2), (3) or (4):

          (i) a designated entity;

          (ii) the trustee-manager of a designated entity;

          (iii) the person mentioned in section 28H(4); or

(d) the LTA would not have granted its approval under
     section 28H(1), (2), (3) or (4) had it been aware, at the
     time of approval, of circumstances relevant to a person’s
     application for such approval.

 (2) The LTA may issue a direction to the designated entity or
trustee-manager in question (as the case may be) to do as follows
(whichever is applicable):

(a) remove the individual as the chief executive officer, the
     chairperson of the board of directors or a director of the
     designated entity or trustee-manager, as the case may be;

(b) reinstate the individual as the chief executive officer, the
     chairperson of the board of directors or a director of the
     designated entity or trustee-manager, as the case may be;

          (c) remove the person as a manager of or partner in the
              designated entity.

 (3) A direction issued under this section (including a direction
varied under section 28Q(2)) has effect despite the provisions of any
other written law or anything contained in the memorandum or
articles of association, limited liability partnership agreement,
partnership contract, trust deed or other constitution, of the
designated entity or trustee-manager in question.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
69  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

 (4) Nothing in subsection (2) is to be taken as depriving a person
who is removed under that subsection of compensation or damages
payable to the person in respect of the termination of his or her
appointment as the chief executive officer, the chairperson of the
board of directors, a director, or the person’s removal as a manager or
partner.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Remedial directions relating to section 28I

 28P.—(1) Subsection (2) applies where —

       (a) a person has contravened section 28I(1); or

       (b) where the LTA has granted its approval under
            section 28I(1) —

               (i) any condition of approval imposed under
                   section 28I(4) has not been complied with;

              (ii) either of the joint applicants mentioned in
                   section 28I(1)(a) or (b) has provided false or
                   misleading information or documents to the LTA in
                   connection with the application for the approval; or

             (iii) the LTA would not have granted its approval under
                   section 28I(1) had it been aware, at the time of
                   approval, of circumstances relevant to the
                   application for such approval.

 (2) The LTA may —

       (a) direct the person who has acquired as a going concern the
            business or part of the business mentioned in section 28I(1)
            to transfer or dispose of all or any part of the business
            within such time and subject to such conditions as the LTA
            considers appropriate;

       (b) prohibit or restrict the transfer or disposal of all or any part
            of the business; or

       (c) issue any other direction that the LTA considers
            appropriate.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            70

 (3) A direction issued under this section (including a direction
varied under section 28Q(2)) has effect despite the provisions of any
other written law or anything contained in the memorandum or
articles of association, limited liability partnership agreement,
partnership contract, trust deed or other constitution, of the
designated operating entity in question.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Other provisions relating to remedial directions

 28Q.—(1) Before issuing any direction to a person under
section 28M, 28O or 28P, the LTA must —

       (a) unless the LTA decides that it is not practicable or desirable
            to do so, give the person written notice of the LTA’s
            intention to issue the direction and specify a date by which
            the person may make written representations with regard to
            the direction; and

       (b) consider every written representation from the person
            received on or before the specified date mentioned in
            paragraph (a).

 (2) The LTA may, at any time, revoke, vary or discharge, or suspend
the operation of, any direction given by it under section 28M, 28O or
28P.

 (3) A person who fails to comply with a direction issued by the LTA
under section 28M, 28O or 28P (including a direction that is varied
under subsection (2)) within the period specified by the LTA shall be
guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

                           Division 4 — Penalties

Penalties under this Part

 28R. A person guilty of an offence under this Part shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $5,000 for every

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
71  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

                                    PART 5

                       STEP-IN ARRANGEMENTS

Application of this Part

 29. This Part applies only in relation to the following (called in this
Part the relevant licensee):

       (a) a bus operator holding a Class 1 bus service licence;

       (b) a licensee holding a bus depot licence or a bus interchange
            licence.

Step-in order

 30.—(1) The Minister may make an order under this section (called
a step‑in order) if —

       (a) the licence of a relevant licensee is suspended, revoked or
            surrendered; or

       (b) the public bus services contract to which a relevant
            licensee is party is terminated or suspended,

and on receipt of the written advice from the LTA of its opinion that it
is necessary to take over some or all of the operations of the relevant
licensee to ensure that the relevant licensee’s customers receive an
adequate provision of those services.

 (2) Before a step-in order is made under this section, the Minister
must give the relevant licensee concerned a reasonable opportunity to
make submissions in respect of the proposed step-in order.

 (3) A step-in order —

       (a) authorises the LTA to directly take over, or to enter into an
            interim services contract with a step-in operator to take
            over, the operations of the relevant licensee concerned, or a
            specified part of those operations;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            72

(b) may appoint, or order the relevant licensee concerned to
     appoint, a person to advise the relevant licensee in the
     proper conduct of its business;

          (c) may specify that —

          (i) the step-in operator has such functions and powers in
              relation to the operations of the relevant licensee
              concerned as are specified in the order;

          (ii) the relevant licensee concerned is to stop operating a
               bus depot or bus interchange for, or providing regular
               route services to, specified customers on and from a
               specified date; and

          (iii) the step-in operator must have access to, and take
                control of, the buses or premises or other assets and
                other property, including intellectual property,
                licences and employees, used or required by the
                relevant licensee for the purposes of carrying on the
                operations specified in the order; and

(d) may contain ancillary directions that may —

          (i) direct how the costs of carrying on the bus operations
              or bus depot or bus interchange operations (as the
              case may be), and revenue generated from those
              operations, are to be dealt with;

          (ii) fix the remuneration and expenses to be paid by a
               relevant licensee to any person appointed by the
               Minister under paragraph (b) to advise the relevant
               licensee in the proper conduct of its business;

          (iii) specify the period for which the step-in order under
                subsection (1) applies; and

          (iv) specify any other conditions that may apply.

(4) Any decision of the Minister under subsection (1) is final.

 (5) A step-in order operates to the exclusion of rights that are
inconsistent with the step-in order.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
73  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

(6) The relevant licensee concerned —

    (a) must facilitate the handover of the operations to the step‑in
         operator as specified in the order;

    (b) must not obstruct the step-in operator’s access to property
         or the exercise by the step‑in operator of the step‑in
         operator’s responsibilities under this section; and

    (c) must comply with reasonable directions given by the
        step‑in operator in the exercise of the step‑in operator’s
        responsibilities under this section.

 (7) The relevant licensee which fails to comply with subsection (6)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $100 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

Other provisions in step-in arrangements

 31.—(1) Without affecting section 30(3), where financial
assistance is provided by the Government to a relevant licensee for
the purpose of maintaining the reliability of the supply of services by
the relevant licensee, a step-in order may do one or more of the
following:

       (a) in relation to all or any securities of a specified description
            that have been issued by the relevant licensee, make
            provision for or in connection with or in consequence of
            the transfer of shares or securities in the relevant licensee
            to any of the prescribed transferees, including the
            extinguishment of rights of any specified description to
            subscribe for, or otherwise acquire, securities of the
            operator concerned or any of its subsidiaries; and

       (b) make provision for or in connection with or in consequence
            of the transfer of property, rights or liabilities of the
            relevant licensee to any of the prescribed transferees.

 (2) A step-in order as described in subsection (1)(a) or (b) may
contain any of the particular kinds of provisions as may be prescribed
by the Minister by rules in the Gazette.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.      Bus Services Industry Act 2015                        74

 (3) If a step‑in order as described in subsection (1)(a) or (b) is made,
the Minister must, within 3 months after the making of the step‑in
order, by notification in the Gazette, establish a scheme for
determining the amount of any compensation payable by the
relevant prescribed transferee —

(a) to persons who held the shares or securities immediately
     before they were so transferred;

(b) to persons whose rights of any specified description to
     subscribe for, or otherwise acquire, securities are
     extinguished; or

          (c) to the operator whose property, rights or liabilities have
              been transferred,

as the case may be.

 (4) Any scheme established under subsection (3) may make
provision —

(a) for the manner in which any compensation or
     consideration is to be assessed, including the methods of
     calculation, valuation dates and matters to be taken into, or
     left out of, account in making valuations; and

(b) for the assessment to be made by an independent valuer
     appointed by the Minister and as to the remuneration and
     expenses of that independent valuer.

(5) In subsection (1), “prescribed transferee” means —

(a) the LTA;

(b) a company that is wholly‑owned by the Government; or

          (c) a nominee of the LTA.

Interim services contracts

 32.—(1) The LTA may enter into an interim services contract with
any person if the LTA is satisfied that the contract is necessary to
ensure the continuity of any regular route services or the operation of
a bus depot or bus interchange for the time being discontinued —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
75  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    (a) to ensure the continuity of regular route services or the
         operation of a bus depot or bus interchange in an interim
         period; or

    (b) to provide regular route services or the operation of a bus
         depot or bus interchange temporarily,

in place of regular route services or the operation of a bus depot or bus
interchange by a relevant licensee because of the suspension or
revocation of the relevant licensee’s licence or the termination of the
relevant licensee’s public bus services contract.

 (2) The LTA may invite offers from the public, in any way the LTA
considers appropriate, for an interim services contract, except that the
LTA may enter into an interim services contract without inviting
offers for the contract if the LTA is satisfied that the contract is
necessary as a matter of urgency.

(3) An interim services contract is for a term of —

    (a) not more than 12 months as decided by the LTA if the LTA
         entered into the interim services contract without inviting
         offers for the contract; or

    (b) not more than 2 years as decided by the LTA in any other
         case.

Rules and saving for step-in arrangements

 33.—(1) The Minister may, by rules in the Gazette, give effect to
this Part, including making provision for applying, omitting or
modifying the provisions of Parts 7 and 9 of the Insolvency,
Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 where a step‑in order is
made.

                                                                                                           [40/2018]

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

 (2) Nothing effected or to be effected by this Part or done under this
Part —

       (a) is to be regarded as placing any person in breach of
            contract or confidence or as otherwise making any person
            guilty of a civil wrong;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            76

(b) is to be regarded as placing any person in breach of, or as
     constituting a default under, any Act or other law or
     obligation or any provision in any agreement, arrangement
     or understanding including, but not limited to, any
     provision or obligation prohibiting, restricting or
     regulating the assignment, transfer, sale or disposal of
     any property or the disclosure of any information;

          (c) is to be regarded as fulfilling any condition that allows a
              person to exercise a power, right or remedy in respect of or
              to terminate any agreement or obligation;

(d) is to be regarded as giving rise to any remedy for a party to
     a contract or an instrument or as causing or permitting the
     termination of any contract or instrument because of a
     change in the beneficial or legal ownership of any relevant
     property;

          (e) is to be regarded as causing any contract or instrument to
              be void or otherwise unenforceable, or as frustrating any
              contract; or

          (f) releases any surety or other obligor wholly or in part from
              any obligation.

                                   PART 5A
               SPECIAL ADMINISTRATION ORDERS

                       AND OTHER ORDERS FOR
                DESIGNATED OPERATING ENTITIES

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Interpretation of this Part
 33A.—(1) In this Part —
      “unit” has the meaning given by section 2 of the Business Trusts
         Act 2004;
      “unitholder” means a person who holds units in a business trust;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
77  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    “unregistered company” has the meaning given by
       section 245(1) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
       Dissolution Act 2018.

(2) In this Part —

    (a) a reference to the affairs, business, undertaking, operations
         or activities of a designated operating entity that is a
         business trust is to the affairs, business, undertaking,
         operations or activities (as the case may be) carried on by
         the trustee-manager of the business trust on behalf of the
         business trust; and

    (b) a reference to the obligations of a designated operating
         entity that is a business trust is to the obligations
         undertaken by the trustee-manager of the business trust
         on behalf of the business trust.

                                                                        [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Non-application of this Part to designated operating entities
that are licensees

 33B. This Part does not apply to or in relation to any designated
operating entity that is also —

       (a) a bus operator holding a Class 1 bus service licence; or

       (b) a licensee holding a bus depot licence or bus interchange
            licence.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Meaning and purposes of special administration order

 33C.—(1) A special administration order is an order of the Minister
made in relation to a designated operating entity on or after the
effective designation date and in accordance with section 33D,
directing that during the period the order is in force, the affairs,
business and property of that entity are to be managed by a person
appointed by the Minister which may be the LTA (called in this Part
an appointed person) —

       (a) for securing one or more of the purposes specified in
            subsection (2); and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            78

(b) in a manner that protects the interests of the shareholders,
     unitholders or beneficiaries (as the case may be), and the
     customers and creditors, of the entity.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(a), the purposes are —

(a) the security and reliability of the business, undertaking or
     activities of the designated operating entity in Singapore
     relating to the entity’s provision of any essential transport
     service;

(b) the survival of the designated operating entity or the whole
     or any part of the business or undertaking of the entity, as a
     going concern;

          (c) the transfer to another person, or (as respects different parts
              of its business or undertaking) to 2 or more different
              persons, as a going concern, of so much of the business or
              undertaking of the designated operating entity as is
              necessary to ensure that the obligations of the entity in
              relation to its business, undertaking or activities of
              providing any essential transport service may be properly
              carried out; and

(d) the carrying out of the obligations of the designated
     operating entity mentioned in paragraph (c) pending the
     transfer, as a going concern, of the entity’s business or
     undertaking mentioned in that paragraph to any other
     person or persons.

                                                                    [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Power to make special administration order and other orders

 33D.—(1) If, on an application made to the Minister by the LTA,
the Minister is satisfied that any one or more of the grounds specified
in subsection (2) are satisfied in relation to a designated operating
entity, the Minister may make any one or more of the following
orders:

       (a) a special administration order in relation to the designated
            operating entity;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
79  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    (b) an order requiring —

    (i) the designated operating entity; or

    (ii) in the case of a designated operating entity that is a
         business trust — the trustee-manager of the business
         trust,

    (b) to immediately take any action or to do or not do any act or
         thing where the Minister considers that the action or the
         doing or not doing of the act or thing is necessary for the
         business, undertaking or activities of the designated
         operating entity of providing any essential transport
         service;

    (c) an order appointing a person (called in this Part an advisor)
        to advise —

    (i) the designated operating entity; or

    (ii) in the case of a designated operating entity that is a
         business trust — the trustee-manager of the business
         trust,

    (c) in the proper conduct of the business, undertaking or
        activities of the designated operating entity mentioned in
        paragraph (b).

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the grounds are the
following:

    (a) the designated operating entity is or is likely to be unable to
         pay its debts;

    (b) the Minister considers it to be in the interest of the security
         and reliability of the provision of any essential transport
         service by the designated operating entity;

    (c) the Minister considers it to be in the public interest.

 (3) Notice of any order under subsection (1) must be given
immediately by the Minister to such persons and in such manner as
may be determined by the Minister.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            80

 (4) The Minister may make a special administration order in
relation to a designated operating entity despite the commencement
of (as applicable) —

(a) any proceedings relating to the making of an order under
     section 210 of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the
     Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
     relation to the designated operating entity, being a
     corporation;

(b) any proceedings relating to the making of a judicial
     management order under Part 7 of the Insolvency,
     Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to the
     designated operating entity, being a corporation;

          (c) any meeting convened under section 94(7) of the
              Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
              respect of the designated operating entity, being a
              corporation;

(d) any proceedings under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
     Dissolution Act 2018 relating to the winding up of the
     affairs of the designated operating entity, being a company
     or an unregistered company;

          (e) any proceedings under the Limited Liability Partnerships
              Act 2005 relating to the winding up of the affairs of the
              designated operating entity, being a limited liability
              partnership; or

          (f) any proceedings before any court for the dissolution,
              winding up or termination (as the case may be) of the
              designated operating entity, being an entity not mentioned
              in paragraph (d) or (e).

 (5) For the purposes of this section, a designated operating entity is
unable to pay its debts if —

(a) a creditor (by assignment or otherwise) to whom the entity
     is indebted in a sum exceeding the sum mentioned in
     section 125(2)(a) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
     Dissolution Act 2018 then due has served on the entity, by
     leaving at the registered office of the entity, a written

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
81  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    demand by the creditor or the creditor’s lawfully
    authorised agent requiring the entity to pay the sum so
    due, and the entity has for 3 weeks after the service of the
    demand neglected to pay the sum, or to secure or
    compound for it to the reasonable satisfaction of the
    creditor;

    (b) an enforcement order or other process issued to enforce a
         judgment, decree or order of any court in favour of a
         creditor of the entity is returned unsatisfied in whole or in
         part; or

    (c) it is proved to the satisfaction of the General Division of
        the High Court that the entity is unable to pay its debts.

                                                                        [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Ancillary directions, etc., when special administration order,
etc., is made

 33E.—(1) A special administration order under this Part may
specify that —

       (a) the appointed person has such functions and powers in
            relation to the operations of the designated operating entity
            as are specified in the order;

       (b) the designated operating entity or, if the designated
            operating entity is a business trust, its trustee-manager, is
            to stop providing a specified service or facility from a
            specified date; and

       (c) the appointed person must have access to, and take control
            of, the property (including intellectual property), licences
            and employees used or required by the designated
            operating entity or, if the designated operating entity is a
            business trust, its trustee-manager, for the purposes of
            carrying on the operations of the designated operating
            entity as are specified in the order.

 (2) A special administration order under this Part may also contain
ancillary directions that may —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            82

(a) direct how the costs of the operations specified in the order
     and revenue generated from those operations, are to be
     dealt with;

(b) fix the remuneration and expenses to be paid by the
     designated operating entity or trustee-manager to the
     appointed person;

          (c) specify the period for which the order under this section
              applies; and

(d) specify any other conditions that may apply.

 (3) An order under section 33D(1)(c) may also contain an ancillary
direction that fixes the remuneration and expenses to be paid by the
designated operating entity or trustee-manager to the advisor.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Effect of special administration order and other orders

 33F.—(1) Any decision of the Minister under section 33D(1) is
final.

 (2) A special administration order operates to the exclusion of
rights that are inconsistent with the order.

 (3) Nothing in Part 4 or 4A applies to prohibit or invalidate any
special administration order or other order made under this Part or
any transaction entered into to give effect to such an order.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Duties of designated operating entity or trustee-manager, etc.

 33G.—(1) The designated operating entity that is the subject of a
special administration order under this Part or, in the case of such a
designated operating entity that is a business trust, its trustee-
manager —

       (a) must facilitate the handover of the operations to the
            appointed person as specified in the order;

       (b) must not obstruct the appointed person’s access to property
            or the exercise by the appointed person of the appointed
            person’s responsibilities under or pursuant to the special
            administration order; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
83  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    (c) must comply with reasonable directions given by the
        appointed person in the exercise of the appointed person’s
        responsibilities under or pursuant to the special
        administration order.

 (2) The designated operating entity or trustee-manager which fails
to comply with subsection (1) or an order under section 33D(1)(b)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6
months or to both.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Transfer of property, etc., under special administration order

 33H.—(1) Without limiting sections 33C, 33D and 33E, a special
administration order may provide for the following matters:

       (a) the transfer to one or more prescribed transferees (which
            may or may not be the appointed person) of the following
            (whichever is applicable):

               (i) the property, rights and liabilities of a designated
                   operating entity;

              (ii) in the case of a designated operating entity that is a
                   business trust — the property of the business trust,
                   and the rights held and the liabilities incurred by the
                   trustee-manager of the business trust in its capacity
                   as trustee-manager of the business trust;

       (b) matters that are consequential or related to any such
            transfer.

 (2) If the Minister makes a special administration order providing
for any matter mentioned in subsection (1), the Minister must, by
notification in the Gazette, establish a scheme within the following
period for determining the amount of any compensation payable by
the prescribed transferee to the designated operating entity or the
trustee-manager or unitholders of the business trust (as the case may
be) for the transfer of the property, rights and liabilities:

       (a) 6 months after the date of the making of the special
            administration order;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            84

(b) any longer period after the date of the making of the special
     administration order, as agreed between the prescribed
     transferee and the designated operating entity or trustee-
     manager.

(3) A scheme established under subsection (2) may provide for —

(a) the manner in which any compensation or consideration is
     to be assessed, including methods of calculation, valuation
     dates and matters to be taken into account or disregarded
     when making valuations;

(b) the assessment to be made by an independent valuer
     appointed by the Minister; and

          (c) the remuneration and expenses of the independent valuer.

 (4) In this section, “prescribed transferee” means the LTA or a
person nominated by the Minister.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Regulations for this Part

 33I. The Minister may make regulations under section 49 for giving
effect to this Part, including —

       (a) regulations governing the transfer of property, rights and
            liabilities of or in relation to a designated operating entity
            mentioned in section 33H(1)(a) and matters consequential
            or related to such transfer; and

       (b) if a special administration order is made, regulations for
            applying, omitting or modifying the provisions of Parts 7
            and 9 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act
            2018.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

                                    PART 6
      ENFORCEMENT AND MONITORING COMPLIANCE
Accounts and statements
 34.—(1) Subject to subsection (4), a public bus operator holding a
Class 1 bus service licence must —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
85              Bus Services Industry Act 2015                2020 Ed.

    (a) in respect of the whole or part (as the case may be) of every
         financial year, prepare such accounts and statements as are
         specified in, or ascertained in accordance with, the
         regulations;

    (b) retain the accounts and statements prepared in accordance
         with paragraph (a) for 5 years after the end of the period to
         which they relate;

    (c) within the prescribed period after the accounting period,
        give the LTA those accounts and statements duly audited
        by an auditor approved by the LTA; and

    (d) keep and retain records, where the records are relevant to
         the preparation of the accounts and statements of the
         licensee mentioned in paragraph (a), for the period and in
         the manner prescribed in the regulations.

 (2) A public bus operator holding a Class 1 bus service licence must
not prepare any accounts or statements in such a way that they do not
correctly record and explain the matters or things to which they relate.

(3) A person —

    (a) who is subject to any requirement under subsection (1) or
         (2); and

    (b) who contravenes that requirement,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000.

 (4) The LTA may on application waive any requirement under
subsection (1) in any particular case.

Record-keeping and giving information on quality of service

 35.—(1) A public bus operator holding a Class 1 bus service
licence and every bus service subcontractor who provides bus
services under an agreement with such a licensee, must —

       (a) keep and retain, for any period that is prescribed, records
            where the records are relevant to a matter that is relevant to
            monitoring or evaluating, under this Part, the quality of an
            aspect of bus services as prescribed in the regulations; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.        Bus Services Industry Act 2015                      86

(b) give to the LTA, within the period and in the manner
     prescribed in the regulations, specified information that is
     relevant to a matter that is relevant to monitoring or
     evaluating, under this Part, the quality of an aspect of bus
     services as prescribed in the regulations.

 (2) A public bus operator holding a Class 1 bus service licence, and
every bus service subcontractor who provides bus services under an
agreement with such a licensee, must not, in purported compliance
with a requirement under subsection (1), make a record of any matter
or thing in a way that does not correctly record the matter or thing.

(3) A person —

(a) who is subject to any requirement under subsection (1) or
     (2); and

(b) who contravenes that requirement,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000.

Power to obtain information

 36.—(1) The LTA or an authorised officer may by written notice
require any licensee to provide, within a reasonable period specified
in the notice, and in the form and manner specified in the notice, all
documents and information which —

       (a) relate to any matter which the LTA considers necessary to
            carry out the functions or duties of the LTA by or under any
            provision of this Act; and

       (b) are —

               (i) within the knowledge of that licensee; or

              (ii) in the licensee’s custody or under the licensee’s
                   control.

 (2) The power to require a licensee to provide any document or
information under subsection (1) includes the power —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
87  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    (a) to require that licensee, or any individual who is or was an
         officer or employee of the licensee, to provide an
         explanation of the document or information;

    (b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
         that licensee or individual to state, to the best of the
         licensee’s or individual’s knowledge and belief, where it is;
         and

    (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
        form, to require the information to be made available to the
        LTA in legible form.

 (3) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do
anything required of the person by notice under subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000.

(4) Any person —

    (a) who intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any
         document or information which the person has been
         required by a notice under subsection (1) to provide; or

    (b) who, in providing any document or information required
         under subsection (1), makes any statement which the
         person knows to be false in a material particular or
         recklessly makes such a statement,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (5) If any person fails to comply with a notice under subsection (1),
the court may, on the application of the LTA, make any order that the
court thinks fit to secure compliance with the notice and that order
may provide that all the costs or expenses of and incidental to the
application are to be borne by the person or by any officer of a
company or other association who is responsible for the failure.

 (6) The LTA through an authorised officer may, at any time after the
end of the period specified in the notice mentioned in
subsection (1) —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            88

(a) enter any building or place where the LTA has reason to
     believe that any document or information, in respect of
     which it has given the notice, may be found; and

(b) seize or take extracts or copies of that document or
     information.

 (7) The LTA is entitled without payment to keep any document or
information, or any copy of or extract from any document or
information, provided to the LTA under subsection (1) or obtained
under subsection (6).

 (8) Where a licensee is a licensed bus operator, any reference to a
licensee in subsections (1) and (2) includes a reference to every bus
service subcontractor who provides bus services under an agreement
with the licensee.

 (9) Where a licensee is a licensed bus depot operator or a licensed
bus interchange operator, any reference to a licensee in
subsections (1) and (2) includes a reference to every bus depot or
interchange subcontractor who operates the bus depot or bus
interchange specified in the licence under an agreement with the
licensee.

Codes of practice

 37.—(1) The LTA may, with respect to all or any of the matters in
subsection (2) —

       (a) issue one or more codes of practice applicable to licensees
            or specified types of licensees;

       (b) approve as a code of practice applicable to licensees or
            specified types of licensees any document prepared by a
            person other than the LTA if the LTA considers the
            document suitable for this purpose; or

       (c) amend or revoke any code of practice issued under
            paragraph (a) or approved under paragraph (b).

 (2) The matters for the purposes of subsection (1) are —

       (a) the conduct of licensees;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
89  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    (b) the measures necessary for licensees to deal with any
         plague, epidemic, fire, flood, earthquake or disaster
         (natural or otherwise) or any other public emergency;

    (c) competition, abuse of a dominant position in the market
        and fair market conduct in the bus service industry;

    (d) for licensed bus operators —

    (i) the management and operation of bus services;

    (ii) the provision of bus services; and

    (iii) the quality of such aspects of bus services; and

    (e) for holders of a bus depot licence or bus interchange
        licence —

    (i) the maintenance or operation of bus depots or bus
        interchanges and any equipment relating to the
        premises;

    (ii) the provision of services and facilities at bus depots
         or bus interchanges;

    (iii) the quality of such aspects of those services and
          facilities; and

    (iv) the safety and security of persons who use or who are
         engaged in any work at bus depots or bus
         interchanges.

 (3) A code of practice may, in particular, specify the duties and
obligations of any licensee in relation to its business operation insofar
as it relates to the provision of bus services or the operation of a bus
depot or bus interchange (as the case may be) in Singapore.

 (4) If any provision in any code of practice is inconsistent with any
provision of this Act, the provision, to the extent of the
inconsistency —

    (a) is to have effect subject to this Act; or

    (b) having regard to this Act, is not to have effect.

 (5) Where a code of practice is issued, approved, amended or
revoked by the LTA under subsection (1), the LTA must —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            90

(a) give notice of the issue, approval, amendment or
     revocation (as the case may be) of the code of practice
     to every licensee to which the code of practice applies;

(b) specify in the notice mentioned in paragraph (a) the date of
     issue, approval, amendment or revocation, as the case may
     be; and

          (c) ensure that, so long as the code of practice remains in force,
              copies of that code of practice, and of all amendments to
              that code of practice, are available for inspection, free of
              charge, by the licensees to whom the code of practice
              applies.

 (6) No code of practice, no amendment to an approved code of
practice, and no revocation of any approved code of practice, has any
force or effect as an approved code of practice until the notice relating
to it is published in accordance with subsection (5).

 (7) A code of practice issued or approved under this section does
not have legislative effect.

 (8) Subject to subsection (9), every licensee must comply with the
relevant codes of practice applicable to the licensee.

 (9) The LTA may, either generally or for the time that the LTA may
specify, waive the application of any, or part of any, code of practice,
issued or approved under this section to any licensee.

 (10) Any contravention or failure to comply by a person with a code
of practice that applies to the person does not of itself render the
person liable to criminal proceedings, but any such contravention or
failure may, in any proceedings (criminal or otherwise under this Act)
in connection with an offence under this Act, be relied on by any
party to those proceedings as tending to establish or negative any
liability which is in question in those proceedings.

Directions affecting licensees

 38.—(1) The LTA may give a direction to a licensee for or in
respect of —

       (a) the extent, hours and general level of service;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
91  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    (b) any matter affecting the interests of the public in
         connection with the service provided by the licensee;

    (c) in the case of bus depots or bus interchanges —

    (i) the maintenance and operation of the bus depot or
        bus interchange and any equipment in those
        premises;

    (ii) the security criteria for selecting persons engaged in
         any work at the bus depot or bus interchange;

    (iii) the safety and security of persons using or at work at
          the bus depot or bus interchange; or

    (iv) the terms and conditions that the licensee can impose
         on the use of the bus depot or bus interchange on
         persons referred to in section 26(2)(f)(i), (ii) and (iii);
         and

    (d) in the case of bus services, the preservation and promotion
         of fair competition among operators of bus services.

(2) A direction given under subsection (1) —

    (a) may require the licensee concerned (according to the
         circumstances of the case) to do, or to refrain from doing,
         for a specified period, things specified in the direction or
         things that are of a description specified in the direction;

    (b) takes effect at the time, being the earliest practicable time,
         determined by or under that direction; and

    (c) may be revoked at any time by the LTA.

 (3) Before exercising any powers under subsection (1), the LTA
must, unless the LTA in respect of any particular direction considers
that it is not practicable or desirable, give written notice to the
licensee concerned —

    (a) stating that the LTA intends to give a direction to the
         licensee under this section and the nature of the direction;
         and

    (b) specifying the time (being at least 14 days after the date of
         service of the notice on the licensee) within which written

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            92

          representation may be made to the LTA with respect to the
          proposed direction.

 (4) The LTA may, after considering any written representation
under subsection (3)(b), decide to give or not give the direction as the
LTA considers appropriate.

 (5) The LTA must serve on the licensee concerned a notice of its
decision under subsection (4).

 (6) Subject to section 41, a direction takes effect from the date on
which a notice under subsection (5) is given, or on any other date
specified in the notice.

 (7) Every licensee must comply with every direction given under
this section to the licensee as soon as it takes effect.

Suspension or revocation, etc., of licence

 39.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), if the LTA is satisfied that —

       (a) the licensee is contravening or not complying with, or has
            contravened or failed to comply with —

               (i) any of the conditions of its licence;

             (ia) any condition of approval under section 19;

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

              (ii) any provision of this Act applicable to the licensee,
                   contravention of or non-compliance with which is
                   not an offence;

             (iii) any provision of a code of practice applicable to the
                   licensee; or

             (iv) any direction given to the licensee under section 38
                   or subsection (2)(d) or (f);

       (b) the licensee has gone or is likely to go into compulsory or
            voluntary liquidation other than for the purpose of
            amalgamation or reconstruction;

       (c) the licensee has made any assignment to, or composition
            with, its creditors or, if a company, is unable to pay its
            debts;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
93  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    (d) for a licensed bus operator, the licensee is not providing an
         adequate and satisfactory bus service;

    (e) for a licensee holding a Class 1 bus service licence, the
        licensee has not complied with any direction under
        section 19(3);

    (f) the licensee is convicted of any offence under this Act
        committed during the term of the licence, or any of the
        following individuals is convicted of an offence under this
        Act committed during the term of the licence:

    (i) any member of the board of directors or committee
         or board of trustees or other governing body, or the
         chief executive officer, of a licensee that is a
         company, limited liability partnership or other
         body corporate;

                                                              [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

    (ii) any partner of a licensee that is a partnership or
         limited liability partnership; or

    (g) the public interest or national security of Singapore
         requires,

the LTA may revoke (without any compensation) the licensee’s
licence, with or without forfeiting any performance bond, guarantee
or other form of security furnished by the licensee under this Act.

 (2) However, the LTA may, in lieu of revoking a licensee’s licence
under subsection (1), do any one or more of the following:

    (a) censure the licensee in writing;

    (b) modify any condition of the licence;

    (c) require the furnishing of any performance bond, guarantee
        or other form of security, or an additional performance
        bond, guarantee or other form of security, to secure
        compliance by the licensee with any condition attached
        to the licence or for the purpose of meeting any financial
        penalty arising out of any proceedings with a view to
        regulatory action started or likely to start against the
        licensee, or both;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            94

(d) direct the licensee to do, or to refrain from doing, anything
     specified in a direction to rectify a contravention or
     non‑compliance;

          (e) suspend (for not more than 6 months) the licence without
              any compensation;

          (f) direct the licensee to pay, within a period specified in a
              direction, a financial penalty of an amount that the LTA
              thinks fit, being —

          (i) not more than $100,000 for each contravention or
              failure to comply with any instrument in
              subsection (1)(a) that is the subject; or

          (ii) in any other case, not more than $100,000.

 (3) Before exercising any powers under subsection (1) or (2), the
LTA must give written notice to the licensee concerned —

(a) stating that the LTA intends to take regulatory action
     against the licensee under this section;

(b) specifying the type of action in subsection (1) or (2) the
     LTA proposes to take, and each instance of
     non‑compliance that is the subject of the action; and

          (c) specifying the time (being at least 14 days after the date of
              service of the notice on the licensee) within which written
              representation may be made to the LTA with respect to the
              proposed action.

 (4) The LTA may, after considering any written representation
under subsection (3)(c), decide to take any regulatory action in
subsection (2) that the LTA considers appropriate.

 (5) Where the LTA has made any decision under subsection (4)
against any licensee, the LTA must serve on the licensee concerned a
notice of its decision.

 (6) Subject to section 41, a decision to revoke a licence, or to
impose a regulatory action in subsection (2), which is specified in the
notice given under subsection (5), takes effect from the date on which
that notice is given, or on any other date specified in the notice.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
95  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

 (7) The suspension or revocation of any licence, or any direction
issued under this section, does not prejudice the enforcement by any
person of any right or claim against the licensee or former licensee, or
by the licensee or former licensee of any right or claim against any
person.

 (8) Where any financial penalty is imposed on a licensee under
subsection (2) for contravening or not complying with any condition
of its licence, any performance bond, guarantee or other form of
security given by the licensee to secure compliance by the licensee
with any condition attached to the licence must not be forfeited by the
LTA for that contravention except to the extent to pay the financial
penalty.

 (9) In any proceedings under this section in relation to the
conviction of a licensee or any person for a criminal offence, the
LTA is to accept the licensee’s or person’s conviction as final and
conclusive.

 (10) For the purposes of subsection (1)(c), a company is unable to
pay its debts if it is a company which is deemed to be so unable under
section 125(2) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
Act 2018.

                                                                                                           [40/2018]

Composition of offences

 40.—(1) The LTA, or any authorised officer authorised in writing
by the LTA, may compound any offence under this Act that is
prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a person
reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum not
exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            96

                    PART 7

                    APPEALS

Appeal to Minister

 41.—(1) The former holder of a licence revoked under section 39
(called an appellant) may appeal to the Minister against the decision
by the LTA under that section to revoke the licence.

 (2) A licensee which is aggrieved by any of the following decisions
of the LTA (called an appellant) may appeal to the Minister against
the decision:

(a) any refusal by the LTA under section 13(1)(b) or 25(3)(b)
     to renew the licensee’s licence;

(b) any condition imposed by the LTA in the licensee’s licence
     under section 15 or 26, as the case may be;

          (c) any modification of any condition in the licensee’s licence
              under section 16 or 27, as the case may be;

(d) any provision contained in a code of practice applicable to
     the licensee that is issued, approved or amended by the
     LTA under section 37;

          (e) any regulatory action taken against the licensee under
              section 39(1) or (2);

          (f) any direction given by the LTA under section 19(3) or 38.

 (3) An applicant for a licence (called an appellant) may appeal to
the Minister against any refusal by the LTA under section 13 or 24 to
grant the applicant the licence.

 (3A) Any person who is aggrieved by any of the following
decisions of the LTA may appeal to the Minister against the decision:

(a) any decision to designate an entity under section 28E;

(b) any refusal to grant an approval required under
     section 28G, 28H or 28I;

          (c) any decision to impose, add to or vary any condition under
              section 28G, 28H or 28I;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
97  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

       (d) any decision to issue a direction under section 28M, 28O or
            28P or to vary a direction under section 28Q(2).

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 (4) An appeal under this section must be in writing and specify the
grounds on which it is made, and be made within a prescribed period
after the date of receipt of the decision that is appealed against.

 (5) The Minister may reject an appeal of an appellant who fails to
comply with subsection (4).

(6) After consideration of an appeal, the Minister may —

    (a) reject the appeal and confirm the LTA’s decision; or

    (b) allow the appeal and substitute or vary the LTA’s decision.

(7) The Minister’s decision on an appeal is final.

 (8) Every appellant must be notified of the Minister’s decision
under subsection (7).

 (9) An appeal against the LTA’s decision does not affect the
operation of the decision appealed against or prevent the taking of
action to implement the decision, and unless otherwise directed by
the Minister, the decision appealed against must be complied with
until the determination of the appeal.

Designation of others to hear appeals

 42. The Minister may designate any Minister of State, Senior
Minister of State, Parliamentary Secretary or Senior Parliamentary
Secretary for his or her Ministry, to hear and determine, in the
Minister’s place, any appeals or a specific appeal under section 41;
and any reference in that section to the Minister includes a reference
to the Minister of State, Senior Minister of State, Parliamentary
Secretary or Senior Parliamentary Secretary so designated for that
appeal.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            98

          PART 7A

          CONDUCT OF INDIVIDUALS ON BUSES AND
          AT BUS DEPOTS AND BUS INTERCHANGES

                   [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

  Division 1 — Regulation of conduct of individuals on buses and
                   at bus depots and bus interchanges

Screening, etc., bus passengers and entrants to bus
interchanges

 42AA.—(1) It is a condition of entry to any bus or bus interchange
that a bus passenger of the bus or an entrant to the bus interchange
must, if asked by a police officer or an approved person anywhere in
or in the immediate vicinity of the bus or bus interchange, do one or
more of the following for the purpose of ensuring the safety or
security of persons who are or may be on board the bus or at the bus
interchange:

       (a) undergo any form of security screening mentioned in
            subsection (2);

       (b) undergo a frisk search;

       (c) permit an inspection to be made of the bus passenger’s or
            entrant’s personal property;

       (d) permit a search through any bag, container or other
            receptacle or any garments removed in accordance with
            subsection (2).

 (2) To ensure the safety or security of persons who are or may be on
board a bus or at any bus interchange, a police officer or an approved
person may ask a bus passenger of the bus or an entrant to the bus
interchange to do one or more of the following:

       (a) walk through a screening detector;

       (b) pass the bus passenger’s or entrant’s personal property
            through an X‑ray machine;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
99  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

    (c) allow the police officer or approved person to pass a
        hand‑held scanner in close proximity to the bus
        passenger’s or entrant’s personal property;

    (d) allow the police officer or approved person to inspect the
         bus passenger’s or entrant’s personal property;

    (e) produce or empty the contents of any bag, container or
        other receptacle in the possession or apparently in the
        immediate control of the bus passenger or entrant;

    (f) turn out the bus passenger’s or entrant’s pockets or remove
        all articles from the bus passenger’s or entrant’s clothing,
        and allow the police officer or approved person to inspect
        them;

    (g) remove any coat, jacket, gloves, shoes or hat or any other
         thing worn or carried by the bus passenger or entrant,
         which may be conveniently removed if worn and that is
         specified by the police officer or approved person, and
         allow the police officer or approved person to inspect the
         coat, jacket, gloves, shoes or hat or other thing;

    (h) open an article for inspection and allow the police officer
         or approved person to inspect the article.

 (3) To ensure the safety or security of persons who are or may be on
board a bus or at any bus interchange, a police officer or senior
approved person may also ask a bus passenger of the bus or an entrant
to the bus interchange to do one or more of the following:

    (a) undergo a frisk search;

    (b) allow the police officer or senior approved person to pass a
         hand‑held scanner in close proximity to the bus passenger
         or entrant.

 (4) To avoid doubt, a police officer or an approved person may
make a request to a bus passenger of a bus or an entrant to a bus
interchange to do anything under subsection (2)(d), (e), (f), (g) or (h)
if the police officer or approved person (as the case may be)
reasonably considers it necessary to make such a request under that
provision, whether or not the bus passenger or entrant or the personal

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            100

property of the bus passenger or entrant has been subjected to
screening or a frisk search under subsection (2)(a), (b) or (c) or (3).

 (5) Without limiting subsection (6), where a bus passenger of a bus
or an entrant to a bus interchange refuses —

(a) to permit to be screened or inspected under subsection (2)
     or (3)(b) by a police officer, an approved person or a senior
     approved person, as the case may be —

          (i) the bus passenger’s or entrant’s personal property; or

          (ii) any bag, container or other receptacle in the
               possession or apparently in the immediate control
               of the bus passenger or entrant;

(b) to allow a police officer, an approved person or a senior
     approved person (as the case may be) to pass a hand‑held
     scanner in close proximity to the bus passenger or entrant
     or the bus passenger’s or entrant’s personal property under
     subsection (2) or (3)(b); or

          (c) to undergo a frisk search under subsection (3)(a) by a
              police officer or senior approved person,

the police officer, approved person or senior approved person (as the
case may be) may order the bus passenger or entrant to immediately
leave the bus or bus interchange (as the case may be) with that
personal property, bag, container or receptacle, as the case may be.

 (6) An individual who, without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails
to comply with any request or order of a police officer, an approved
person or a senior approved person (as the case may be) under
subsection (2), (3) or (5) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

 (7) However, it is not an offence under subsection (6) for any
individual to refuse to comply with any request or order made or
given by —

(a) a police officer who is not in uniform and who fails to
     declare his or her office; or

(b) an approved person or a senior approved person who fails
     to declare his or her office and, in the case of an outsourced

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
101  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

     enforcement officer, who also refuses to produce his or her
     identification card on demand being made by that
     individual.

(8) In this section —

     “approved person”, in relation to a bus or bus interchange,
        means any of the following individuals who is authorised by
        the LTA in writing to exercise any power under this section at
        or in relation to the bus or bus interchange concerned:

     (a) an officer or employee of the LTA;

     (b) a member of an auxiliary police force in uniform;

     (c) an employee of —

     (i) a bus operator holding a Class 1 bus service
         licence to provide a bus service using the bus;
         or

     (ii) a bus interchange operator holding a bus
          interchange licence to operate the bus
          interchange;

     (d) a security officer (within the meaning given by
          section 13 of the Private Security Industry Act 2007)
          engaged by the bus operator or bus interchange
          operator mentioned in paragraph (c);

     (e) an outsourced enforcement officer;

     “entrant”, in relation to a bus interchange, means an individual
        who is about to enter the bus interchange, and includes an
        individual who is within the bus interchange, whether or not a
        bus passenger;

     “frisk search” means a search of an individual conducted by
        quickly running the hands over the individual’s outer
        clothing;

     “hand‑held scanner” means a device that may be passed over or
        around an individual or an individual’s personal property to
        detect metal, dangerous objects or explosive or other
        hazardous substances;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            102

“identification card”, in relation to an outsourced enforcement
   officer, means an identification card issued under
   section 11(3) of the Land Transport Authority of Singapore
   Act 1995 to the officer;

“inspect”, in relation to an article, includes handling, opening,
   examining and moving the contents of the article;

“outsourced enforcement officer”, in relation to any provision of
   this Part or regulations made for the purposes of this Part,
   means an individual who —

          (a) is appointed under section 11(1) of the Land
               Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995;

          (b) is authorised by or under that Act to exercise any
               powers under any provision of this Part or regulations
               made for the purposes of this Part, as the case may be;
               and

          (c) is acting within that authorisation;

“personal property”, in relation to an individual, means anything
   carried by the individual or anything apparently in the
   immediate control of the individual, but does not include
   clothing being worn by the individual;

“senior approved person”, in relation to a bus or bus interchange,
   means an approved person who is authorised by the LTA in
   writing to exercise any power under this section at or in
   relation to the bus or bus interchange concerned, who is any
   of the following:

          (a) a member of an auxiliary police force in uniform;

          (b) a security officer (within the meaning given by
               section 13 of the Private Security Industry Act 2007)
               engaged by —

          (i) a bus operator holding a Class 1 bus service
              licence to provide a bus service using the bus;
              or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
103  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

     (ii) a bus interchange operator holding a bus
          interchange licence to operate the bus
          interchange;

     (c) an outsourced enforcement officer.

                                                                [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

Bringing dangerous items into bus or bus interchange

 42AB.—(1) It is also a condition of entry to any bus or bus
interchange that a bus passenger of the bus or an entrant to the bus
interchange must not take into or possess, when on board the bus or in
the bus interchange, any dangerous item.

 (2) A bus passenger of a bus or an entrant to a bus interchange must
not take a dangerous item on board the bus or into the bus interchange
unless the bus passenger or entrant (as the case may be) has the
express permission of a police officer or an approved person to do so.

 (3) An individual who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000.

 (4) However, it is not an offence under subsection (3) if the
individual disposes of the dangerous item before boarding the bus or
entering the bus interchange.

 (5) In this section —

      “approved person” and “entrant” have the meanings given by
         section 42AA(8);

      “dangerous item” means any of the following:

              (a) any gun, explosive, noxious substance or weapon
                   within the meaning given by the Guns, Explosives
                   and Weapons Control Act 2021;

              (b) any petroleum or any substance prescribed to be a
                   flammable material for the purposes of the Fire
                   Safety Act 1993;

              (c) any hazardous substance or corrosive substance;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            104

          (d) any other article or substance which is capable of
               posing a risk to health, safety, property or the
               environment and is prescribed as a dangerous item.

                                                                     [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

Offence of wilfully endangering safety

 42AC. Any person who wilfully does or omits to do anything in
relation to any bus, bus depot or bus interchange as a result of which
the safety of any person travelling on the bus or in the bus depot or
bus interchange is endangered, or is likely to be so endangered, shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5
years or to both.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

Damage to bus, bus depot or bus interchange

 42AD. Any person who wilfully —

       (a) removes, destroys or damages anything that is part of any
            bus, bus depot or bus interchange; or

       (b) destroys or damages any bus, bus depot or bus interchange
            or any part of those premises,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $200,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

Compensation for damaging bus, bus depot or bus interchange

 42AE.—(1) Any person who —

       (a) removes, destroys or damages anything that is part of any
            bus, bus depot or bus interchange; or

       (b) destroys or damages any bus, bus depot or bus interchange
            or any part of those premises,

whether wilfully or otherwise, is, in addition to any penalty for which
the person is liable for an offence under this Act, liable to pay
compensation for the damage the person has done and the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
105  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

compensation is recoverable by civil action or suit before any court of
competent jurisdiction.

 (2) Subject to subsection (1), any court before which a person is
charged with an offence under this Act may assess the compensation
payable under this section and may make an order for the payment of
the same.

 (3) Any order made under subsection (2) may be enforced as if it
were a judgment in a civil action or suit.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

      Division 2 — Administration and enforcement of Part 7A

Purpose for which powers are exercisable

 42AF.—(1) An authorised officer may exercise the powers set out
in section 42AG(1) to detect and investigate offences under this Part,
including regulations made for the purposes of this Part (called in this
Division the Regulations).

 (2) To avoid doubt, nothing in this Part limits section 39 of the Land
Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995 with respect to an offence
under this Part or the Regulations.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

Powers of authorised officer

 42AG.—(1) The powers that an authorised officer may exercise for
the purpose mentioned in section 42AF(1) are all or any of the
following:

       (a) to enter, at any reasonable time, any bus, bus depot or bus
            interchange;

       (b) to require an individual suspected of committing an
            offence under this Part or the Regulations to provide
            evidence of the individual’s identity as may be required by
            the authorised officer;

       (c) to advise the individual to stop engaging in conduct that is
            an offence under this Part or the Regulations;

       (d) to photograph or film, or otherwise record the place where,
            or in respect of which, an offence under this Part or the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            106

          Regulations was committed or is reasonably suspected to
          have been committed, and any individual in that place;

          (e) to take statements —

          (i) from an individual mentioned in paragraph (b) or (d);
              and

          (ii) from any complainant against the individual
               mentioned in paragraph (b),

          (e) and to require such an individual to make and sign a
              declaration of the truth of the statement made by the
              individual.

 (2) Any person who refuses to give access to, or obstructs, hinders
or delays, an authorised officer or a person authorised under
section 42AI in the exercise of his or her powers under
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

(3) Any person who —

(a) refuses to provide any information required of the person
     by an authorised officer under subsection (1) or by a person
     authorised under section 42AI acting under subsection (1);
     or

(b) wilfully misstates that information,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $500.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

Powers of arrest

 42AH.—(1) A police officer, or any employee of the LTA generally
or specially authorised in writing by the Chief Executive of the LTA,
may arrest without warrant any person found committing, or whom
he or she has reason to believe has committed, an offence punishable
under this Part or the Regulations.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
107  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

 (2) A person arrested under subsection (1) must not be detained
longer than is necessary for bringing the person before a court unless
the order of court for the person’s continued detention is obtained.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

Authorised employee of licensee, etc., to exercise certain
powers of authorised officers

 42AI. The LTA may, with the approval of the Minister, in writing
authorise any licensee or employee of a licensee to exercise all or any
of the powers of an authorised officer under section 42AG(1) subject
to such conditions or limitations as the LTA may specify.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

Regulations for this Part

 42AJ.—(1) The LTA may make regulations under section 49 for
the purposes of this Part, including —

       (a) controlling and regulating —

               (i) the conduct of bus passengers of a bus and members
                   of the public at a bus interchange; and

              (ii) any activity which may damage a bus or bus
                   interchange or may endanger the safety of any
                   individual who is travelling on a bus or is at a bus
                   interchange; and

       (b) prescribing the terms and conditions relating to the use of
            any bus or bus interchange.

 (2) Regulations made for the purposes of this Part may apply to —

       (a) all buses, particular types of buses or buses operated in a
            particular manner; and

       (b) all bus interchanges or particular types of bus interchanges.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            108

                          PART 8

                     MISCELLANEOUS

Advisory guidelines

 42A.—(1) The LTA may make advisory guidelines with a view to
providing guidance or certainty in respect of any one or more of the
provisions in this Act.

(2) Advisory guidelines, for example, may be made about —

(a) what amounts to a material function of a designated
     operating entity for the purposes of section 28J(1)(a); or

(b) the relevant principles to consider in determining what
     amounts to a material impediment to or impairment of the
     operations of a designated operating entity for the purposes
     of section 28J(3)(a).

 (3) The LTA may make different advisory guidelines under
subsection (1) in respect of different persons or entities or different
classes of persons or entities.

(4) The Authority must —

(a) give a copy of each advisory guideline it makes to the
     Minister; and

(b) publish each advisory guideline (in any way that the
     Authority thinks fit), send each advisory guideline to each
     person or entity to whom the guideline applies (by any
     mode the Authority thinks fit), or both.

 (5) Despite subsection (4)(b), the Authority must publish each
advisory guideline (in any way that the Authority thinks fit) if the
advisory guideline has any effect on the rights of any person or entity
other than the person or entity to which the advisory guideline
applies.

 (6) The failure to comply with subsection (4) or (5) in respect of any
advisory guideline does not invalidate the advisory guideline.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
109  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

Authorised officers

 43.—(1) The LTA may, in relation to any provision in this Act or its
regulations, appoint any of its officers or employees to be an
authorised officer for the purposes of that provision, either generally
or in a particular case.

 (2) The LTA may delegate the exercise of all or any of the powers
conferred or duties imposed upon the LTA by any provision of this
Act (except the power of delegation conferred by this subsection) to
any authorised officer, subject to any conditions or limitations set out
in this Act or as specified by the LTA; and any reference in the
provision of this Act to the LTA includes a reference to such an
authorised officer.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 44.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer of the body corporate; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            a partner; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.     Bus Services Industry Act 2015                         110

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
     its governing body; or

(b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such an
     officer or a member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(5) In this section —

“body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership;

“officer” —

          (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
               partner, member of the committee of management,
               chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
               officer of the body corporate and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity; or

          (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
               than a partnership), means the president, the
               secretary, or any member of the committee of the
               unincorporated association, or any person holding a
               position analogous to that of president, secretary or
               member of a committee and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (6) The Minister may make regulations to provide for the
application of any provision of this section, with any modifications
that the Minister considers appropriate, to any body corporate,
limited liability partnership or unincorporated association formed or
recognised under the law of a territory outside Singapore.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
111  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

Service of documents

 45.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

     (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

     (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
          specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
          if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
          address or business address;

     (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
         adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
         business address with an adult apparently employed there;

     (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
          at the individual’s residential address or business address;

     (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
         person giving or serving the document as the fax number
         for the service of documents on the individual; or

     (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
         address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

     (a) by giving it to any partner, secretary or other similar officer
          of the partnership;

     (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
          to, the partnership’s business address;

     (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
         partnership’s business address; or

     (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
          address.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            112

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

(a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
     body corporate or the unincorporated association, or the
     limited liability partnership’s manager;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the body corporate’s or unincorporated association’s
     registered office or principal office;

          (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the body
              corporate’s or unincorporated association’s registered
              office or principal office; or

(d) by sending it by email to the body corporate’s or
     unincorporated association’s last email address.

 (5) In addition, a document permitted or required by this Act to be
served on an individual, a partnership, a body corporate or an
unincorporated association may be served —

(a) by giving an electronic notice to the individual,
     partnership, body corporate or unincorporated
     association (called in this section an addressee) by the
     addressee’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
     document is available and how the addressee may use the
     addressee’s chosen means of access to access the
     document’s contents; or

      (b) by any other method authorised by the regulations made
           under section 49 for the service of documents of that kind if
           the addressee consents (expressly or impliedly) to service
           of a document of that kind in that way.

                                                                                                         [38/2018]

(6) Service of a document under subsection (1) takes effect —

(a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
     successful transmission is received, on the day of
     transmission;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
113  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

     (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
          becomes capable of being retrieved by the person; and

     (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
         after the day the document is posted (even if it is returned
         undelivered).

 (7) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email or by an electronic notice at the person’s chosen means of
notification may be effected only with the person’s prior consent
(express or implied) to service in that way.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (8) In this section, “document” includes a notice or an order
permitted or required by this Act to be served.

 (9) However, this section does not apply to documents to be served
in proceedings in court.

(10) In this section —

     “business address” means —

     (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
          last known place of business in Singapore; or

     (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
          liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
          last known place of business in Singapore;

     “chosen means of access”, for an addressee on whom is or is to
        be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
        means an electronic means that the addressee agrees with the
        person giving or serving the document as the means by which
        the addressee may access that document’s contents;

     “chosen means of notification”, for an addressee on whom is or
        is to be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
        means an electronic means that the addressee nominates to
        the person giving or serving the document as the means by
        which the addressee may be notified that the document has
        been served on the addressee;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            114

“last email address” means —

          (a) the last email address given by the addressee
               concerned to the person giving or serving the
               document as the email address for the service of
               documents under this Act; or

          (b) the last email address of the addressee concerned
               known to the person giving or serving the document;

“residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
   place of residence in Singapore.

                                                                    [38/2018]

General exemption

 46. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person
or class of persons from all or any provisions (or any part of any
provision) of this Act, either generally or in a particular case and
subject to any conditions that the Minister may impose.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Jurisdiction of courts

 47. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment in
respect of the offence.

Protection from personal liability

 47A. No liability shall lie against any member, officer or employee
of the LTA or any other person acting under the direction of the LTA
for anything done or intended to be done with reasonable care and in
good faith in the execution or purported execution of this Act.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

No compensation payable

 48. No compensation is payable by the LTA to any person in respect
of or as a consequence of any decision of the LTA under this Act —

       (a) to enter or not to enter into a public bus services contract
            with anyone;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
115  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

     (b) not to renew a public bus services contract; or

     (c) to suspend or terminate a public bus services contract.

Power to amend Schedule

 48A. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend the
Schedule.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Regulations

 49.—(1) The LTA may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out
or giving effect to this Act.

 (2) In particular, the LTA may make regulations for any of the
following:

       (a) classes of licences;

       (b) the form and manner in which, and the time within which,
            an application for a licence or an application to renew a
            licence may be made, and the information and evidence
            required to be provided in connection with the application;

       (c) the carrying out of inquiries of applicants for a licence;

       (d) the duties of licensees;

       (e) the fees to be paid in respect of applications for and the
            grant, renewal or late renewal of any licence, and otherwise
            in connection with the administration of this Act, and the
            waiver, reduction or refund of fees charged;

        (f) the records that are to be kept by licensees and the
            provision of returns and other information with respect to
            the operation of bus services, or bus depots and bus
            interchanges;

       (g) service standards or other requirements, restrictions or
            conditions that apply in the provision of bus services by a
            bus service licensee that is not a public bus operator.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Bus Services Industry Act 2015                            116

(3) Regulations made under this section may —

(a) provide that any contravention of any provision of the
     regulations shall be an offence punishable with a fine not
     exceeding $5,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence,
     a further fine of $100 for every day or part of a day during
     which the offence continues after conviction; and

                                                                    [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

(b) provide for any transitional, saving and other
     consequential, incidental and supplemental provisions
     that are necessary or expedient.

 (4) All regulations made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                Sections 2 and 48A

                  BUS SERVICES AND OTHER SERVICES FOR
                  PURPOSES OF PARAGRAPHS (b) AND (c) OF
                   DEFINITION OF “ESSENTIAL TRANSPORT

                                          SERVICE”

                                           PART 1

                                      BUS SERVICES

 1. Any regular route service provided pursuant to a public bus services contract
entered into under section 6(2).

                                           PART 2

                                    OTHER SERVICES

 1. Monitoring and management of any regular route service provided pursuant
to a public bus services contract entered into under section 6(2).

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                   LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
           BUS SERVICES INDUSTRY ACT 2015

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 30 of 2015 — Bus Services Industry Act 2015

Bill           : 26/2015

First Reading  : 13 July 2015

Second and Third Readings : 18 August 2015

Commencement   : 22 January 2016

2. Act 38 of 2018 — Land Transport (Enforcement Measures) Act 2018
   (Amendments made by section 37 of the above Act)

Bill           : 29/2018

First Reading  : 6 August 2018

Second and Third Readings : 10 September 2018

Commencement   : 3 June 2019 (section 37)

3. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
   (Amendments made by section 455 of the above Act)

Bill           : 32/2018

First Reading  : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement   : 30 July 2020 (section 455)

4. 2020 Revised Edition — Bus Services Industry Act 2015

Operation      : 31 December 2021

5. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 24/2022

First Reading  : 12 September 2022

Second and Third Readings : 3 October 2022

Commencement   : 1 November 2022

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
               ii

6. Act 20 of 2024 — Transport Sector (Critical Firms) Act 2024
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 16/2024

First Reading  : 3 April 2024

Second and Third Readings : 8 May 2024

Commencement   : 1 April 2025

7. Act 17 of 2025 — Transport Sector (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act
                           2025

Bill           : 12/2025

First Reading  : 26 September 2025

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 2025

Commencement   : 23 September 2026

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
         COMPARATIVE TABLE
BUS SERVICES INDUSTRY ACT 2015

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                     Act 30 of 2015
45—(5)                          45—(4A)

   (6)                             (5)
   (7)                             (5A)
   (8)                             (6)
   (9)                             (7)
   (10)                            (8)
[Omitted as having had effect]  50
[Omitted as having had effect]  51
[Omitted as having had effect]  52
[Omitted as having had effect]  53—(1)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (2)
[Omitted as having had effect]  54
[Omitted as spent]              55—(1)
[Omitted as spent]                 (2)
[Omitted as spent]                 (3)
[Omitted as spent]              THE SCHEDULE

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
