THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                         FILMS ACT 1981

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                                          2020 Ed.

          Films Act 1981

Section                 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

     1.   Short title
     2.   Interpretation
     3.   Authority to administer this Act
     4.   Classification officers, licensing officers and enforcement
          officers
     4A.  Advisory committees
     5.   Delegation of powers and duties by Authority
     6.   Licence to import, distribute or publicly exhibit film
     7.   Application for licence
     8.   Security
     9.   Licence fee
   10.    Period for which licence is in force
   10A.   Class licence for certain imports, etc., of certain films
   11.    Regulatory action against licensees, etc.
   12.    Permit to remove imported films
   13.    Types of classification and classification ratings
   14.    Applications for film classification or re-classification
   15.    Classification and re-classification of films
   15A.   Calling in films for classification or re-classification
   15B.   Supplementary provisions for film classification, etc.
   16.    Refused classification for certain films
   17.    De-classification of classified film
   18.    Classification certificates and labels
   19.    Film content assessors
   20.    Duties of film content assessor
   20A.   Procedure for registration as film content assessor
   20B.   Regulatory action against registered film content assessor
   20C.   Register of film content assessors
   21.    Offences involving unclassified films, etc.
   22.    Offences about advertisements for films
   22A.   Approval of advertisements for films
   23.    Measures to ensure compliance, etc.
   24.    Appeal against classification decisions
   24A.   Minister’s decision on appeal against classification decisions

          1

                          31.12.2021
2        Films Act 1981                                                   2020 Ed.

Section  Committee of Appeal
   25.   Powers of Committee of Appeal
   26.   Minister may order Committee of Appeal to inspect any film
   27.   Appeal to Minister against other decisions of Authority
   28.   Disposal of unclaimed films
   28A.  Offences involving dealings in obscene films
   29.   Possession of obscene films
   30.   Advertising obscene films
   31.   Offences involving children and young persons
   32.   Making, distribution and exhibition of party political films
   33.   Powers for enforcement purposes
   34.   Special enforcement powers
   34A.  False information and obstruction of performance of official
   34B.  duties
         Minister may prohibit possession, exhibition or distribution of
   35.   any film
         Protection from personal liability
   36.   Service of documents
   37.   Offences by corporations
   38.   Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   38A.  Composition of offences
   38B.  Court for trial of offence
   39.   Payment of fees, etc.
   39A.  Exemption from Act
   40.   Regulations
   41.

An Act relating to the possession, importation, making, distribution
  and exhibition of films, and to provide for the classification of films
  and for the enforcement of those classifications.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

                                                              [1 October 1981]

Short title

 1. This Act is the Films Act 1981.
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981                                      3

Interpretation
 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “advertisement”, for a film —

          (a) means any of the following where used or apparently
               used to give publicity to the film or to promote
               (directly or indirectly) the distribution or public
               exhibition of the film:

          (i) any words, whether written or in an audible
              message;

          (ii) any still picture, sign, symbol or other visual
               image or representation;

                (iii) any combination of 2 or more of those things in
                      paragraph (i) or (ii); but

          (b) does not include —

          (i) a trailer of any film;

          (ii) an advertisement about a film in a book,
               newspaper, periodical or magazine;

          (iii) a catalogue or price list about films;

          (iv) an advertisement about a film appearing on an
               item of clothing or apparel;

          (v) a website advertisement about a film;

          (vi) an advertisement about a film that is broadcast;
               or

          (vii) any communications of personal opinion made
                by an individual (for no commercial gain) to
                the public or a section of the public about any
                film;

                                           Examples

(a) A flag, poster, placard, banner, photograph, sketch or signboard about a film.

(b) An advertisement woven in, impressed on, worked into or annexed to, a
     container, covering, package, casing, box or other thing in or with which a film
     is distributed.

                                                        31.12.2021
4  Films Act 1981                                        2020 Ed.

   “affix”, for a label relating to a film, means any of the following:

   (a) to apply the label to the film;

   (b) to weave in, impress on, work into or annex the label
        to, a container, wrapping, casing, box or other thing
        in or with which the film is distributed;

   (c) to apply the label, or to incorporate the label in, an
       instruction or other like document that accompanies
       the film;

   “Authority” means the Info-communications Media
      Development Authority established by the
      Info-communications Media Development Authority
      Act 2016;

   “broadcasting service” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of
      the Broadcasting Act 1994;

   “business” includes any business in Singapore, whether or not
      carried on for profit and whether or not its primary function is
      connected with films;

   “child” means a person who is below 14 years of age;

   “cinematograph film” means a slide, disc, tape or other article or
      thing in which visual images are embodied and from which a
      moving picture may be shown or produced, and includes the
      aggregate of sounds embodied in a soundtrack (if any)
      associated with the visual images forming part of the
      cinematograph film;

   “class licence” means a class licence determined under an order
      made under section 10A(1);

   “class licensee” means a person to whom an order under
      section 10A(1) applies;

   “classification certificate” means a classification certificate
      issued under section 18;

   “classification label” means a classification label made available
      under section 18;
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981                      5

“classification officer”, in relation to any provision of this Act or
   its subsidiary legislation, means an officer of the Authority
   who is appointed as a classification officer under
   section 4(1)(a) for the purposes of that provision;

“classification rating” means a rating prescribed under
   section 13;

“classified”, in relation to a film, means —

          (a) classified or re-classified by the Authority under
               section 15 (including deemed classified under
               section 15(9));

          (b) classified by a film content assessor and deemed by
               section 20(1) to be classified by the Authority;

          (c) classified or re-classified under section 26 or 27 by
              the Committee of Appeal (whether before, on or after
              29 April 2019; or

          (d) classified by the Board of Film Censors by specifying
               the classification for the film in a certificate
               approving the exhibition of the film under this Act
               as in force before 29 April 2019;

“classify”, in relation to a film, means assigning under
   section 15 a classification rating for the film;

“Committee of Appeal” means the Committee of Appeal
   established under section 25;

“computer generated image” means an image (including an
   image in the form of text) produced by use of a computer on a
   computer monitor, television screen, mobile device or similar
   medium from electronically recorded data;

“contentious material”, for a film, means material comprised in
   the content of the film that is within the ambit of section 16;

“distribute” means doing any of the following without using a
   broadcasting service:

          (a) sell, supply or let for hire to a person in Singapore;

                                              31.12.2021
6  Films Act 1981                                     2020 Ed.

   (b) offer or agree to sell, supply or let for hire to a person
        in Singapore;

   (c) cause or permit to be sold, supplied to or hired by a
       person in Singapore;

   (d) under or in connection with a commercial
        arrangement —

   (i) exchange or supply to a person in Singapore; or

   (ii) enable or assist an exchange or a supply to a
        person in Singapore, even if the exchange or
        supply is not, by itself, a commercial
        arrangement;

   (e) display or invite to treat for an act mentioned in
       paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d);

   “election” means an election under the Parliamentary Elections
      Act 1954 or the Presidential Elections Act 1991;

   “electronic transmission” includes electronic mail,
      telecommunications and other electronic communication;

   “enforcement officer”, in relation to any provision of this Act or
      its subsidiary legislation, means an officer of the Authority
      who is appointed as an enforcement officer under
      section 4(1)(c) for the purposes of that provision;

   “evidential material” means any of the following:

   (a) a thing with respect to which an offence under this
        Act or its subsidiary legislation has been or is
        suspected, on reasonable grounds, to have been
        committed;

   (b) a thing that there are reasonable grounds for
        suspecting will afford evidence as to the
        commission of an offence under this Act or its
        subsidiary legislation;

   (c) a thing that there are reasonable grounds for
       suspecting is intended to be used for the purpose of
2020 Ed.        Films Act 1981                                         7

             committing an offence under this Act or its subsidiary
             legislation;

“exempt film” means a film that is, by section 40, exempt from
   all provisions of this Act;

“exhibit” includes —

          (a) for a film that is a video game — to demonstrate or
               display the video game, but does not include any
               activity that is public entertainment within the
               meaning of the Public Entertainments Act 1958; and

          (b) for a film that is not a video game — to display,
               screen or project the contents contained in the film in
               order that another individual may see it (regardless of
               the manner of the film’s reception),

          and further includes the meaning given in subsection (5);

“film” means —

          (a) a cinematograph film or video recording;

          (b) a video game; or

          (c) any other form of recording from which a moving
              visual image (except as provided otherwise in
              subsection (5)) including a computer generated
              image, can be produced and viewed (together with
              its soundtrack),

          and includes any trailer for a film and any part of a film;

“film content assessor” means an individual who is registered
   under section 19, but does not include an individual during
   the period his or her registration under that section is
   suspended;

“interactive game” means a game in which the way the game
   proceeds, and the result achieved at various stages of the
   game, is determined in response to decisions, inputs and the
   direct involvement of the player;

“its subsidiary legislation”, in relation to this Act, means any
   subsidiary legislation made under this Act;

                                                        31.12.2021
8  Films Act 1981                                      2020 Ed.

   “licence” means a licence granted under section 7;

   “licensee” means the person to whom a licence is granted, but
      does not include —

   (a) a class licensee; or

   (b) a person during the period the person’s licence is
        suspended;

   “licensing officer”, in relation to any provision of this Act or its
      subsidiary legislation, means an officer of the Authority who
      is appointed under section 4(1)(b) for the purposes of that
      provision;

   “mobile device” includes a mobile telephone or other device that
      is designed to run a mobile operating system;

   “modify”, in relation to any conditions of a licence or
      classification certificate, includes —

   (a) deleting, or varying and substituting such a
        condition; and

   (b) adding any such condition;

   “obscene”, in relation to a film, means a film the effect of which
      or (where the film comprises 2 or more distinct parts or items)
      the effect of any one of its parts or items is, if taken as a
      whole, such as to tend to deprave or corrupt persons who are
      likely, having regard to all relevant circumstances, to see or
      hear the film;

   “occupier”, in relation to a place, means the person in
      occupation of the place (whether or not an owner or
      lodger), and includes the person otherwise having the
      charge, management or control of the place either on his or
      her own account or as agent of another person;

   “party political film” means a film —

   (a) that is an advertisement made by or on behalf of any
        political party in Singapore or any body whose
        objects relate wholly or mainly to politics in
        Singapore, or any branch of such party or body; or
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981                     9

        (b) that is made by any person and directed towards any
             political end in Singapore;

“place” includes —

          (a) any vacant land in Singapore;

          (b) any, or part of any, building or structure of any kind in
               Singapore, whether vacant or occupied; or

          (c) any vehicle, vessel or aircraft in Singapore, other
              than —

          (i) a vehicle on a journey, whether direct or
              indirect, between a place in Singapore and a
              place outside Singapore and includes any part
              of the journey that may occur within Singapore;

          (ii) a vessel on a voyage, whether direct or indirect,
               between a place in Singapore and a place
               outside Singapore and includes any part of the
               voyage that may occur within Singapore; or

              (iii) an aircraft on a flight that passes through the
                    airspace over the territory of more than one
                    country and includes any part of the flight that
                    may occur within Singapore;

“prohibited film” means a film that is the subject of an order
   made under section 35(1);

“public place” means —

          (a) any place in Singapore to which members of the
               public have access as of right or by virtue of express
               or implied permission, whether or not on payment of
               a fee, and whether or not access to the place may be
               restricted at particular times or for particular
               purposes; or

                                             31.12.2021
10  Films Act 1981  2020 Ed.

    (b) a part of a place in Singapore that the occupier of the
         place allows members of the public to enter, but only
         while the place is ordinarily open to members of the
         public,

    whether or not it is an approved place within the meaning of
    the Public Entertainments Act 1958;

    “publicly exhibit”, in relation to a video game, a film that is not a
       video game, or an advertisement for a film, means to exhibit
       the video game, film or advertisement (as the case may be) in
       a public place (such as a cinema or theatre) or so that it can be
       seen from a public place, and includes —

    (a) arranging or conducting the exhibition of the video
         game, film or advertisement (as the case may be) in a
         public place or so that it can be seen from a public
         place; or

            (b) having the superintendence or management of the
                 place in or from which the video game, film or
                 advertisement (as the case may be) is publicly
                 exhibited;

    “publish”, in relation to an advertisement for a film, means to
       publicly exhibit, display, disseminate or otherwise
       communicate the advertisement to the general public;

    “re-classify”, in relation to a classified film, means to review the
       classification for the film and —

    (a) to alter the classification by raising or lowering the
         classification applicable to the film; or

            (b) to revoke the classification for the film;

    “register of film content assessors” means the register of film
       content assessors required under section 20C to be kept and
       maintained by the Authority;

    “supply”, in relation to a film, includes any of the following:

    (a) supplying the contents of the film by electronic
         transmission to which this Act applies;
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981  11

          (b) offering or giving the film as a prize in any lottery,
               raffle, draw, game or competition;

        (c) offering or giving away the film for the purpose of
             advertisement or in furtherance of any business;

“telecommunications” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
   Telecommunications Act 1999;

“trailer”, in relation to a film, means a cinematograph film or
   video recording that —

          (a) contains selected extracts or images from, or part of,
               the film; and

        (b) is used for, or prepared for the purpose of, giving
             publicity to the film;

“video game” means a kind of film that is a disc, tape, storage
   device or other article or thing embodying —

          (a) a computer program, and any associated data, that is
               capable of generating a display on a computer
               monitor, television screen, mobile device or similar
               medium that allows the playing of an interactive
               game; or

          (b) a computer program, and any associated data, that
               is —

          (i) capable of generating new elements or
              additional levels into a game (called in this
              definition the original game) that is a computer
              program; and

          (ii) contained in a device separate from that
               containing the original game,

          but excludes a video game made available by means of a
          computer online service that is a broadcasting service and is
          played —

          (c) on a mobile device or other device onto which the
              video game has been installed; or

                          31.12.2021
12  Films Act 1981               2020 Ed.

            (d) while the player is using a broadcasting service that
                 enables end-users to access the Internet;

    “video recording” means any disc, magnetic tape or solid state
       recording device containing information by the use of which
       one or more series of visual images may be produced
       electronically and shown as a moving picture;

    “young person” means a person who is 14 years of age or above
       but below 18 years of age.

                                                                                                [25/2018; 30/2019]

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a film is directed towards a political
end in Singapore if the film —

    (a) contains wholly or partly any matter that, in the opinion of
         the Authority, is intended or likely to affect voting in any
         election or national referendum in Singapore; or

    (b) contains wholly or partly references to or comments on any
         political matter that, in the opinion of the Authority, are
         either partisan or biased; and “political matter” includes
         but is not limited to any of the following:

    (i) an election or a national referendum in Singapore;

    (ii) a candidate or group of candidates in an election;

    (iii) an issue submitted or otherwise before electors in an
          election or a national referendum in Singapore;

    (iv) the Government or a previous Government or the
         opposition to the Government or previous
         Government;

    (v) a Member of Parliament;

    (vi) a current policy of the Government or an issue of
         public controversy in Singapore; or

    (vii) a political party in Singapore or any body whose
          objects relate wholly or mainly to politics in
          Singapore, or any branch of such party or body.

                                                                                 [13/2009; 25/2018]
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981                                      13

 (3) Despite subsections (1) and (2), none of the following films are
to be regarded for the purposes of this Act as a party political film:

(a) a film that is made solely for the purpose of reporting of
     news by a broadcasting service licensed under any written
     law;

(b) a film that is made solely for the purpose of informing or
     educating persons on the procedures and polling times for
     any election or national referendum in Singapore;

          (c) a film that records live the whole or a material proportion
              of any performance, assembly of persons or procession that
              is held in accordance with the law and that does not depict
              any event, person or situation in a dramatic way;

(d) a film designed to provide a record of an event or occasion
     that is held in accordance with the law for those who took
     part in the event or occasion or are connected with those
     who did so;

          (e) a documentary film without any animation and composed
              wholly of an accurate account depicting actual events,
              persons (deceased or otherwise) or situations, but not a
              film —

          (i) wholly or substantially based on unscripted or
              “reality” type programmes; or

          (ii) that depicts those events, persons or situations in a
               dramatic way;

          (f) a film without animation and dramatic elements —

                 (i) composed wholly of a political party’s manifesto or
                     declaration of policies or ideology on the basis of
                     which candidates authorised by the political party to
                     stand will seek to be elected at a parliamentary
                     election; and

          (ii) made by or on behalf of that political party;

                          31.12.2021
14  Films Act 1981                                        2020 Ed.

    (g) a film without animation and dramatic elements —

    (i) composed wholly of a candidate’s declaration of
        policies or ideology on the basis of which the
        candidate will seek to be elected at a parliamentary
        or presidential election; and

    (ii) made by or on behalf of that candidate.

                                                  [13/2009]

(4) This Act extends to apply to an electronic transmission —

    (a) the sender of which is —

    (i) an individual who is physically present in Singapore
        when the electronic transmission is sent; or

    (ii) an entity whose central management and control is in
         Singapore when the electronic transmission is sent,

    unless none of the recipients of the transmission is a person
    in paragraph (b);

    (b) the recipient of which is —

    (i) an individual who is physically present in Singapore
        when the electronic transmission is sent; or

    (ii) an entity that carries on business or activities in
         Singapore when the electronic transmission is
         accessed,

    even though the sender is outside Singapore;

    (c) where the computer, server or mobile device that is used to
        access the electronic transmission is located in Singapore;
        or

    (d) if the electronic transmission cannot be delivered because
         the relevant electronic address has ceased to exist
         (assuming that the electronic address existed), where it is
         reasonably likely that the electronic transmission would
         have been accessed using a computer, server or mobile
         device located in Singapore.

                                                                                                     [25/2018]
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981  15

 (5) Without affecting the definition of “exhibit” in subsection (1),
where content (but not live content) comprising wholly or in part
moving images —

(a) is supplied by a broadcasting service, telecommunications
     or other electronic transmission (such as real-time
     transmission); and

(b) is received on a computer monitor, television screen,
     mobile device or similar medium equipment appropriate
     for receiving that content,

the showing of the content by the recipient to one or more other
individuals is taken to be an exhibition of a film and in these
circumstances, the content comprising wholly or in part moving
images so received is deemed to be a film.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (6) To avoid doubt, private viewing alone of a film by an individual
does not constitute exhibiting the film by the individual.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (7) Any power under section 23, 34 or 34A to require an individual
or a person to furnish any document or information includes the
power —

(a) to take reasonable steps to require the individual to furnish
     the document or information immediately or at a place and
     time specified in writing;

(b) to require the individual to provide an explanation of the
     document or information;

          (c) if the document or information is not furnished, to require
              the individual to state, to the best of the individual’s
              knowledge and belief, where the document or information
              is;

(d) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
     form, to require the information to be made available in
     legible form; and

          (e) to require the individual to answer the question
              immediately or at a place and time specified in writing.

                                                                                                          [25/2018]

                          31.12.2021
16  Films Act 1981                2020 Ed.

Authority to administer this Act

 3. It is the function of the Authority to exercise licensing and
classification functions in accordance with this Act with respect to
films, and to otherwise enforce and administer this Act.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Classification officers, licensing officers and enforcement
officers

 4.—(1) The Authority may appoint any officer of the Authority as
all or any of the following:

       (a) a classification officer for the administration and
            enforcement of any provision of this Act or its
            subsidiary legislation in relation to classification of films;

       (b) a licensing officer for the administration and enforcement
            of any provision of this Act or its subsidiary legislation in
            relation to licensing;

       (c) an enforcement officer for exercising powers conferred by
            a provision of this Act or its subsidiary legislation on an
            enforcement officer.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) An enforcement officer may exercise powers conferred under
this Act or its subsidiary legislation only to the extent authorised by
the Authority, which may include being directed by another suitably
senior enforcement officer.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) The Authority must issue to each enforcement officer an
identification card, which must be carried at all times by the officer
when exercising his or her powers under this Act or its subsidiary
legislation.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (4) It is not an offence under this Act for any person to refuse to
comply with any request, demand or order made or given by any
enforcement officer who fails to declare his or her office and refuses
to produce his or her identification card on demand being made by
that person.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]
2020 Ed.             Films Act 1981  17

Advisory committees

 4A.—(1) The Minister may appoint one or more advisory
committees to provide advice to the Authority with regard to the
performance of any of its functions in relation to any film.

                                                                                                [13/2009; 25/2018]

 (2) Before making any decision under this Act in relation to a film
and for the purpose of forming an opinion on which to base such
decision, the Authority may consult with the relevant advisory
committee in respect of the film but, in making such decision, is not
bound by such consultation.

                                                                                                [13/2009; 25/2018]

Delegation of powers and duties by Authority

 5.—(1) Subject to subsection (4), the Authority may delegate to —

       (a) a classification officer the exercise of all or any of the
            powers conferred or duties imposed upon it by any
            provision of this Act or its subsidiary legislation relating
            to classification of films; or

       (b) a licensing officer the exercise of all or any of the powers
            conferred or duties imposed upon it by any provision of
            this Act or its subsidiary legislation relating to licensing,

and any reference to the Authority in that provision includes a
reference to such a classification officer or licensing officer, as the
case may be.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) No delegation under subsection (1) debars the Authority from
the exercise of any power or the performance of any duty so
delegated.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) A delegation under subsection (1) may be general or in a
particular case, and may be subject to such conditions or limitations
as set out in this Act or as the Authority may specify.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (4) Nothing in this section authorises the Authority delegating the
power of delegation conferred by this section.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

                                     31.12.2021
18  Films Act 1981                                      2020 Ed.

Licence to import, distribute or publicly exhibit film

 6.—(1) A person must not, unless authorised to do so by a licence
or class licence —

    (a) import any film in the course of any business;

    (b) distribute any film in the course of any business; or

       (c) publicly exhibit any film in the course of any business.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) to a fine not exceeding $40,000 or to imprisonment for a
         term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

    (b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
         exceeding $500 for every day or part of a day during which
         the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                     [25/2018]

Application for licence

 7.—(1) An application for a licence must be made to the Authority,
be accompanied by an application fee (if prescribed), and be made in
the form or manner determined by the Authority.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) On receipt of an application under subsection (1), the Authority
must consider the application and may grant a licence with or without
conditions or refuse to grant a licence without assigning any reason.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) A licence may be granted in such form as the Authority
determines.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), the Authority may, at any time,
modify the conditions of a licence.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (5) Unless the Authority considers it impractical or undesirable in
the circumstances of the case, the Authority must, before proceeding
to modify any condition of a licence under subsection (4), give the
licensee concerned written notice of its intention to do so, and an
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981  19

opportunity to make a representation, within such time as may be
specified in the notice, as to why the condition should not be
modified.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Security

 8.—(1) The Authority may, upon granting a licence, require the
licensee to give a performance bond, guarantee or other form of
security on such terms and conditions and of such amount as the
Authority considers appropriate —

       (a) to ensure that the provisions of this Act and its subsidiary
            legislation, and the conditions of the licence, will be duly
            observed; and

       (b) to meet any financial penalty arising out of any
            proceedings under section 11 against the licensee.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) If a licensee fails to pay any financial penalty ordered under
section 11, the Authority may enforce the payment by forfeiting the
whole or any part of any deposit placed by the licensee under this
section.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) This section does not affect the operation of section 11.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Licence fee
 9. Every licensee must pay such licence fee as may be prescribed.

Period for which licence is in force

 10. A licence is in force for such period as the Authority may
determine and may be renewed at the discretion of the Authority on
its expiry.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Class licence for certain imports, etc., of certain films

 10A.—(1) The Authority may, by order in the Gazette, determine a
class licence that authorises any person to which the order applies —

                          31.12.2021
20  Films Act 1981  2020 Ed.

    (a) to import, distribute or publicly exhibit a film of a specified
         kind in the course of any business;

    (b) to import, distribute or publicly exhibit a film in the course
         of a specified kind of business; or

       (c) to import, distribute or publicly exhibit a film of a specified
            kind in the course of a specified kind of business.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) The Authority may include in the class licence any condition
that it thinks fit, including but not limited to the following:

    (a) a condition specifying the places at which, the
         geographical area within which, or the periods during
         which, the import, distribution or public exhibition of the
         film is authorised under the class licence;

    (b) a condition that any class licensee under the class licence
         must comply with a code or standard incorporated by the
         class licence and made applicable to the person;

    (c) a condition that facilitates compliance by class licensees
        with the classification requirements of this Act,

and the order in the Gazette must include all the conditions of the
class licence.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) Different conditions may be specified for different types of
activities described in subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (4) Subject to this section, the Authority may, by order in the
Gazette, vary the class licence by —

    (a) varying or revoking any condition specified in the class
         licence; or

       (b) specifying additional conditions of the class licence.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (5) Before varying a class licence under subsection (4) or revoking
the order under subsection (1) and ending a class licence, the
Authority must, unless the Authority considers it impractical or
undesirable in the circumstances of the case, cause to be published, in
accordance with subsection (6), a written notice that —
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981                             21

(a) states that the Authority proposes to vary the class licence,
     or to end the class licence;

(b) describes the proposed variation or ending; and

       (c) invites interested persons to make representations about
            the proposed variation or ending by a specified date that is
            at least one month after the date of publication of the
            notice.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (6) A notice under subsection (5) must be published on the
Authority’s website or in one or more other forms that are readily
accessible by the public.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (7) The Authority must, before varying a class licence under
subsection (4) or revoking the order under subsection (1) and ending a
class licence, give due consideration to any representations made to it
pursuant to the notice given in accordance with subsection (5).

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (8) The import, distribution or public exhibition of a film by any
person to which an order under subsection (1) applies is deemed
authorised by a licence if it is done in accordance with the conditions
of the class licence.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Regulatory action against licensees, etc.

 11.—(1) Subject to this section, the Authority may, without
compensation, by written order, take regulatory action described in
subsection (2) against a licensee or class licensee if the Authority is
satisfied that —

       (a) the licensee is contravening or has contravened any
            condition of its licence, or the class licensee is
            contravening or has contravened any condition of the
            class licence, which contravention is not an offence under
            this Act;

       (b) the licensee or class licensee has been convicted, on or
            after 29 April 2019 but during the term of its licence or the

                                                     31.12.2021
22  Films Act 1981                             2020 Ed.

    class licence, of any offence under this Act or its subsidiary
    legislation which is committed on or after that date;

    (c) the licence had been obtained by the licensee by fraud or
         misrepresentation;

    (d) the licensee or class licensee has ceased —

    (i) to import or distribute films in the course of any
        business; or

    (ii) to publicly exhibit films in the course of any
         business;

    (e) the licensee or class licensee has been declared bankrupt,
        or has gone into compulsory or voluntary liquidation other
        than for the purpose of amalgamation or reconstruction;

    (f) the licensee or class licensee has failed to comply with a
        requirement under subsection (2)(b)(iv) or section 8 or an
        order under this section to pay a financial penalty;

    (g) the licensee has imported or distributed, or publicly
         exhibited (as the case may be) films in the course of
         business in contravention of any order of the Authority
         made under subsection (2)(b)(ii) or (iii); or

    (h) the public interest so requires.

                                               [25/2018]

 (2) The regulatory action that the Authority may take against a
licensee or class licensee is as follows:

    (a) with or without forfeiting any security furnished by the
         licensee under section 8 or this section —

    (i) revoke a licence of that licensee; or

    (ii) disapply the class licence in an order under
         section 10A(1) with respect to that class licensee;

    (b) in lieu of paragraph (a), all or any of the following:

    (i) suspend the licence or the application of the class
        licence (as the case may be) for a period not
        exceeding 6 months;
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981  23

          (ii) for a licensee, remove from the licence any place
               specified in the licence at which the licensee is
               authorised to distribute or publicly exhibit a film;

          (iii) for a licensee, modify the conditions of the licence,
                about the import, distribution or public exhibition (as
                the case may be) of films by the licensee;

          (iv) for a licensee, require the licensee to furnish
               additional security in the form mentioned in
               section 8;

          (v) for a licensee, forfeit the whole or part of any
               security furnished by the licensee under section 8 and
               this section but not exceeding the limit in
               sub-paragraph (vi);

             (vi) for a licensee or class licensee, direct it to pay, within
                   a period specified, a financial penalty of such amount
                   as the Authority thinks fit, being not more
                   than $10,000.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) Before exercising any powers under this section, the Authority
must, unless it is not practicable or desirable to do so in the
circumstances of the case, give written notice to the licensee or class
licensee concerned —

(a) stating that the Authority intends to take regulatory action
     against the licensee or class licensee under subsection (1);

(b) specifying the type of regulatory action in subsection (2)
     the Authority proposes to take, and each instance of
     non-compliance that is the subject of the regulatory action;
     and

          (c) specifying the time (being not less than 7 days and not
              more than 28 days after the date the written notice is served
              on the licensee or class licensee) within which written
              representations may be made to the Authority with respect
              to the proposed regulatory action.

                                                                                                          [25/2018]

                          31.12.2021
24  Films Act 1981  2020 Ed.

 (4) The Authority may decide to take the appropriate regulatory
action described in subsection (2) —

    (a) after considering any written representation made to it
         pursuant to the written notice mentioned in subsection (3);
         or

       (b) after the time specified in the written notice under
            subsection (3)(c) lapses, where no representation is so
            made.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (5) However, subsection (3) does not apply where the licensee or
class licensee has died or is adjudged a bankrupt, or has been
dissolved or wound up, or has otherwise ceased to exist.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (6) Where the Authority decides under subsection (1) to take
regulatory action against a licensee or class licensee, the Authority
must serve on the licensee or class licensee concerned a written notice
of that decision.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (7) Any decision by the Authority under subsection (1) does not
take effect until the Authority has served the written notice in
subsection (6) on the licensee or class licensee concerned, or on a
later date specified in that notice.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (8) An appeal under section 28 against any decision of the
Authority under subsection (1) does not prevent that decision from
taking effect in accordance with subsection (7).

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (9) Where a decision to revoke a licence or to disapply a class
licence under subsection (1) becomes effective —

    (a) the Authority must cause notice of the revocation or
         disapplication (as the case may be) to be published on the
         Authority’s website; and

    (b) as from the date the decision takes effect, the former
         licensee or former class licensee concerned must stop
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981  25

            importing, distributing or publicly exhibiting films except
            to the extent specially approved by the Authority.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (10) Any revocation or suspension of any licence, and any
disapplication or suspension of the application of a class licence,
does not affect —

(a) the enforcement by any person of any right or claim against
     the licensee or class licensee, or the former licensee or
     former class licensee (as the case may be); or

       (b) the enforcement by the licensee or former licensee, or class
            licensee or former class licensee (as the case may be), of
            any right or claim against any person.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (11) In any proceedings under this section in relation to the
conviction of a licensee or class licensee for an offence, the Authority
may accept the licensee’s conviction as final and conclusive.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (12) If the financial penalty imposed under this section in relation to
any regulatory action taken by the Authority exceeds the total amount
of the deposit placed by the licensee under section 8 and this section,
the amount of the excess is a debt due to the Authority.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Permit to remove imported films

 12.—(1) A person must not, except under the authority of a permit
from the Authority, remove any film —

       (a) in the case of a film imported by sea — from the vessel by
            which the film was imported or from any premises of a
            provider of port services or facilities licensed or exempted
            under the Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore
            Act 1996;

       (b) in the case of a film imported by air — from the airport; or

       (c) in the case of a film imported by land — from a post office,
            railway station or other place of arrival.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

                          31.12.2021
26  Films Act 1981  2020 Ed.

 (2) The permit mentioned in subsection (1) must be in the form, and
for the validity period, that the Authority determines.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (4) This section does not apply to any film that is classified.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Types of classification and classification ratings

 13.—(1) The Minister must, by order in the Gazette, prescribe —

       (a) the different types of classifications for films;

       (b) the ratings for each type of classification giving
            information about the classification (called in this Act
            classification ratings); and

       (c) the markings for each type of classification rating.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) An order made under subsection (1) may prescribe different
types of classification ratings for different kinds of films.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) For the purposes of this Act, the classification stating that a film
is fit for viewing by any member of the public of any age is the lowest
classification.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Applications for film classification or re-classification

 14.—(1) An application for classification or re-classification of a
film must —

       (a) be made to the Authority in the form and manner the
            Authority determines; and

       (b) be accompanied by —

               (i) the fee prescribed (if any) for the classification that is
                   sought in that application;
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981                                      27

          (ii) other documents or information prescribed (if any)
               for that category of film; and

             (iii) any other information that the Authority may require
                   in that particular case.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) The Authority may decline to deal with an application under
subsection (1) for classification or re-classification of a film, or
decline to deal further with that application, if —

(a) the applicant fails —

          (i) to provide or make available a copy of the film for
              screening or demonstration before the Authority;

          (ii) to demonstrate the film before the Authority;

          (iii) in the case of a film that is designed for use wholly or
                principally as a video game, to provide to the
                Authority recordings of the gameplay; or

          (iv) to furnish the information required under
               subsection (1)(b); or

       (b) in the opinion of the Authority, the copy of the film or the
            recordings of the gameplay (as the case may be) provided
            are incomplete or inadequate to allow a proper
            consideration of the application.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) The Authority may retain a copy of any film that is the subject of
an application under this section for so long as the Authority requires.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Classification and re-classification of films

 15.—(1) Subject to subsection (10), on receipt of an application
under section 14 for classification or re-classification of a film, or on
the referral of the Minister under section 24A(1)(b), the Authority
may, after viewing the film —

       (a) classify or re-classify the film, as the case may be; or

                           31.12.2021
28  Films Act 1981  2020 Ed.

      (b) provisionally classify or re-classify the film (as the case
           may be) subject to such alterations or excisions as the
           Authority may specify.

                                                                                                         [25/2018]

(2) Where —

    (a) a decision of a film content assessor assigning a
         classification rating in relation to a film is, by the
         operation of section 20(1), deemed to be a decision of
         the Authority classifying the film; and

    (b) the Authority is of the opinion that the Authority would
         have given the film a different classification rating
         (whether on its own initiative under subsection (3) or on
         application under section 14),

the Authority may, after viewing the film, revoke the classification by
the film content assessor and then re-classify the film by giving the
film a different classification rating.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) Subject to subsection (10), the Authority may, on its own
initiative, call in a classified film for re-classification purposes or an
unclassified film for classification purposes and, after viewing the
film —

    (a) classify or re-classify the film, as the case may be; or

       (b) provisionally classify or re-classify the film (as the case
            may be) subject to such alterations or excisions as the
            Authority may specify.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (4) However, where after viewing a film, the Authority is of the
opinion that the film is within the ambit of section 16, the Authority
must refuse to classify the film (after revoking any prior classification
for the film), and give reasons for that decision.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (5) The matters to be taken into account by the Authority in making
a decision under this section on the classification or re-classification
for a film include —
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981                                 29

(a) the standards of morality, decency and propriety generally
     accepted by reasonable adults in Singapore;

(b) the literary, artistic or educational merit (if any) of the film;

          (c) the general character of the film; and

       (d) the person or class of persons to or amongst whom the film
            is distributed or publicly exhibited, or is intended or likely
            to be distributed or publicly exhibited.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (6) Before making its decision under subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4)
and for the purpose of forming an opinion on which to base such
decision, the Authority may consult an advisory committee or any
other person in respect of the film; but the Authority is not bound by
any advice from the consultation.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (7) In classifying or re-classifying a film, the Authority must
assume that the film will be distributed or publicly exhibited only in
the form in which it is being considered for classification or
re-classification under this section.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (8) In classifying or re-classifying any film under subsection (1),
(2) or (3), the Authority may also determine the consumer advice
giving information about the content of the film.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (9) A provisional classification or re-classification for a film —

(a) lapses at the end of 6 months after it is made; and

       (b) is deemed a classification for that film upon the Authority
            confirming in writing that all the conditions contained in its
            provisional classification have been complied with before
            the end of the period in paragraph (a).

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (10) This section does not authorise the Authority to exercise any
power under this section in relation to a film —

(a) that is an obscene film, a party political film or a prohibited
     film;

                                                      31.12.2021
30  Films Act 1981  2020 Ed.

    (b) that the Minister has or is deemed to have refused
         classification on the ground that it is against national
         security for the film to be classified; or

    (c) in respect of which the Committee of Appeal has, on
        appeal to it, made a decision (whether before, on or after
        29 April 2019), unless —

    (i) more than 5 years have lapsed after the decision of
        the Committee of Appeal takes effect; or

    (ii) the Authority earlier changes any part of its

         classification guidelines, being a change that
         relates to any part of the film’s content.

                                                                                           [25/2018]

Calling in films for classification or re-classification

 15A.—(1) For the purpose of section 15(3), a film may be called in
for classification or re-classification by the Authority giving a written
order to —

       (a) a licensee or class licensee who is distributing or publicly
            exhibiting the film where it is a classified film; or

       (b) a maker or other person in possession of the film where it is
            an unclassified film.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) An order under subsection (1) may require a person given the
order to do the following within a period specified in the order:

       (a) to provide or make available a copy of the film for
            screening or demonstration before the Authority;

       (b) to demonstrate the film before the Authority;

       (c) in the case of a film that is designed for use wholly or
            principally as a video game, to provide to the Authority
            recordings of the gameplay;

       (d) to provide such other information about the film that the
            Authority may require in that particular case.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981  31

 (3) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do anything
required of the person by an order under subsection (1) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Supplementary provisions for film classification, etc.

 15B.—(1) For any viewing of a film for the purposes of
section 15(1), (2), (3) or (4), only the following individuals, or a
combination of such individuals, may be present at the viewing:

       (a) a member of the Authority;

       (b) a classification officer to whom the Authority has
            delegated its functions under section 5(1);

       (c) the projectionist of the film if the film is screened;

       (d) a member of the advisory committee which the Authority
            intends to consult with regard to the film;

       (e) any public officer or other individual whom the Authority
            thinks may assist it in making such a decision.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) As soon as practicable, but not later than 14 days, after a
decision is made under section 15(1), (2), (3) or (4) in respect of a
film, the Authority —

       (a) must give to an applicant written notice of its decision
            under section 15 in respect of the applicant’s application
            for classification or re-classification of the film; and

       (b) must, in the case of re-classification of a film (whether on
            the own initiative of the Authority or on application),
            publish the decision on the Authority’s website, or in one
            or more other forms that are readily accessible by the
            public.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

                          31.12.2021
32  Films Act 1981                                         2020 Ed.

Refused classification for certain films

 16.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, the Authority, the Committee
of Appeal and an individual who is registered as a film content
assessor must refuse to classify any film that —

    (a) is an obscene film;

    (b) is a party political film;

    (c) is a prohibited film;

    (d) is against national security to be classified; or

    (e) contains any material prescribed.

                                                           [25/2018]

(2) A film which is refused classification is an unclassified film.

                                                                                                         [25/2018]

De-classification of classified film

 17.—(1) If the content of a classified film is modified, the film as
modified becomes unclassified when the modification is made; and
the classification for the film with the modification is also deemed to
be then revoked.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may revoke the
classification for a film if it is of the opinion that —

       (a) the film contains contentious material that was not brought
            to the Authority’s attention before the classification was
            made; or

       (b) the Authority would have given the film a different
            classification if it had been aware of the material before
            the classification was made.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a modification that consists
of —

       (a) the addition or removal of navigation functions (such as
            but not limited to an interactive menu); or
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981  33

       (b) any content or material that is prescribed as not likely to
            cause the film to be given a different classification rating.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (4) Where the classification for a film is revoked under
subsection (1) or (2), the Authority must —

(a) without delay notify the person who applied for the
     classification of that film under section 14 (unless the
     person cannot be found after reasonable inquiry) of the
     revoking of the film’s classification and the effective date
     of the revocation; and

       (b) cause to be published in the Gazette, a notice of the
            revoking of the film’s classification and the effective date
            of the revocation.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (5) However, failure to publish a notice under subsection (4)(b) in
respect of any revocation of the classification for a film does not
invalidate the revocation where notice thereof has been given under
subsection (4)(a).

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (6) To avoid doubt, it is declared that where a classification
certificate in respect of a film is revoked or deemed to be revoked
under this section, that revocation applies in respect of each copy of
that film as it applies to that film.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Classification certificates and labels

 18.—(1) The Authority must —

       (a) issue a classification certificate for each film that is
            classified under section 15, 26 or 27, or re-classified under
            section 15, 26 or 27; and

       (b) make available a label (called in this Act a classification
            label) to be affixed to the film.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) The Authority may impose in relation to a classification
certificate any conditions that it thinks fit relating to the

                          31.12.2021
34  Films Act 1981                             2020 Ed.

circumstances of distribution or public exhibition of the film to which
the classification certificate relates.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) A classification certificate issued in respect of a classified film
must include —

    (a) the classification ratings for the classification given to the
         film;

    (b) any consumer advice for the film; and

    (c) the conditions about the display of the classification ratings
        and consumer advice (if any), on —

    (i) any advertisement of the film; and

              (ii) the container, wrapping, casing, box or other thing in
                   or with which the film is to be distributed.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (4) Where a classification certificate is issued and in force in
respect of a film, that certificate applies to each copy of the film that is
identical in content with it as if that copy were that film and, for that
purpose, any reference in this Act to that film includes a reference to
every copy of that film.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (5) A classification label in respect of a film must —

    (a) show the markings for the classification rating for the
         classification given to the film; and

       (b) be affixed, in the manner prescribed (if any), to every copy
            of the film before the film is distributed or publicly
            exhibited.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (6) In any proceedings for an offence under this Act, if a copy of a
film or a container of the film is distributed or publicly exhibited with
a classification label affixed to it in accordance with subsection (5),
the label is sufficient evidence of the fact that the film is a classified
film of the classification rating stated on that label unless the contrary
is established.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981  35

 (7) Where the Authority issues a classification certificate for any
film, it may, where the Authority considers appropriate, require the
person who applied under section 14 for classification or
re-classification of the film to deposit with the Authority a copy of
the film identical in content to that which was classified, and in the
form the Authority specifies —

(a) not later than 14 days after the date the classification
     certificate was issued; or

       (b) within any longer period that the Authority may allow in
            any particular case.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (8) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
any requirement of the Authority under subsection (7) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Film content assessors

 19.—(1) Subject to this Act, the Authority may, by registering an
individual under this section, authorise the individual to do all the
following work (whether or not for reward):

       (a) view and assess the content of a film that has not been
            classified or is not deemed classified by the Authority or
            the Committee of Appeal for the purpose of classifying the
            film’s content;

       (b) assign a classification rating for the film that would, if
            classified by the Authority, be substantially likely to be
            classified not higher than the prescribed classification
            rating (called in this Act the maximum permitted
            classification rating);

       (c) submit to the Authority a report of the assessment and the
            classification rating that the individual assigns to the film.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) An individual is eligible to be registered as a film content
assessor or have the individual’s registration so renewed only if —

                          31.12.2021
36  Films Act 1981  2020 Ed.

    (a) the individual has paid the fees prescribed (if any) for the
         registration or renewal;

    (b) the individual satisfies the Authority that he or she has
         successfully completed the training decided by the
         Authority; and

       (c) the individual satisfies any other requirement that the
            Authority determines for such registration or renewal.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) Without limiting subsection (2), the Authority may refuse to
register, or renew the registration of, an individual as a film content
assessor if, in the opinion of the Authority —

    (a) the individual is not of good character and reputation; or

       (b) there are reasonable grounds for believing that the
            individual will not carry out the duties of a film content
            assessor in accordance with this Act or its subsidiary
            legislation.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (4) An individual who is not registered under this section as a film
content assessor —

    (a) must not do (whether or not for reward) any work specified
         in subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c); and

       (b) must not advertise or hold himself or herself out or
            describe himself or herself in any way to be registered as a
            film content assessor.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (5) An individual who contravenes subsection (4)(a) or (b) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Duties of film content assessor

 20.—(1) A film content assessor’s decision assigning a
classification rating for an unclassified film is deemed, for the
purposes of this Act, to be a decision of the Authority classifying the
film.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]
2020 Ed.           Films Act 1981             37

(2) However, if —

(a) a film contains contentious material; or

(b) a film would, if classified by the Authority, be substantially
     likely to be classified higher than the maximum permitted
     classification rating,

a film content assessor must not view and assess the content of the
film with a view to assigning a classification rating for the film, and
must not assign a classification rating for that film.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Procedure for registration as film content assessor

 20A.—(1) An application for registration, or to renew any
registration, as a film content assessor must be made in the
manner, and must be accompanied by the documents and
particulars, determined by the Authority.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1), the
Authority may, after considering the application —

       (a) register or renew the registration of (as the case may be) the
            applicant as a film content assessor, with or without
            conditions; or

       (b) refuse the registration or renewal (as the case may be).

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) Every registration as a film content assessor —

       (a) is in force for the period specified by the Authority (being
            no longer than 24 months), unless earlier cancelled under
            section 20B; and

       (b) may be renewed for a period specified by the Authority
            (being also no longer than 24 months).

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Regulatory action against registered film content assessor

 20B.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), the Authority may, by written
order, and without any compensation, cancel the registration of an
individual as a film content assessor, or take all or any regulatory

                                              31.12.2021
38  Films Act 1981                                     2020 Ed.

action specified in subsection (2) against the individual, where the
Authority is satisfied that —

    (a) the individual obtained his or her registration, or the
         renewal of his or her registration, by fraud or
         misrepresentation;

    (b) the individual no longer satisfies any of the requirements in
         section 19(2)(b) or (c) by virtue of which he or she was
         registered under that section;

    (c) the individual is convicted, on or after 29 April 2019 and
        during the period the individual’s registration is in force, of
        any of the following which is committed on or after that
        date:

    (i) an offence under this Act or its subsidiary legislation;

    (ii) an offence under other written law involving fraud or
         dishonesty;

    (d) the individual is, for any medical or other reason, no longer
         in a position to effectively carry out the duties of a film
         content assessor under this Act and its subsidiary
         legislation;

    (e) the individual has contravened section 20(2);

    (f) the individual has, without reasonable excuse, not
        completed any further training in the making of
        assessments that the Authority has directed the
        individual to attend;

    (g) the individual, without reasonable excuse, fails to pay any
         financial penalty ordered under subsection (2)(a); or

       (h) the individual has engaged in conduct rendering the
            individual unfit to be a film content assessor.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) The regulatory action that the Authority may take in lieu of
cancelling registration as a film content assessor is all or any of the
following:
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981  39

(a) to require the payment of a financial penalty not
     exceeding $5,000 for conduct that does not constitute an
     offence under this Act;

       (b) to suspend (for a period not exceeding 6 months) the
            registration of an individual as a film content assessor.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) The Authority must not exercise any of its powers under
subsection (1) or (2) unless an opportunity of being heard has been
given to the film content assessor against whom the Authority intends
to exercise any of those powers, being a period of at least 14 days and
not more than 28 days.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (4) Where the Authority has made an order under subsection (1) or
(2), the Authority must serve on the film content assessor concerned a
notice of the order.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (5) Subject to subsection (6), an order by the Authority under
subsection (1) or (2) does not take effect until the day after the
Authority has served on the film content assessor concerned the
notice mentioned in subsection (4).

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (6) An appeal under section 28 against any order under
subsection (1) or (2) does not prevent that order taking effect in
accordance with subsection (5).

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (7) However, the Authority may, without complying with
subsections (3) to (6), by order in writing cancel with immediate
effect the registration of a film content assessor who has died.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (8) Where an order under subsection (1) or (2) cancelling or
suspending the registration of an individual as a film content assessor
becomes effective, the Authority must remove the name and
particulars of that individual from the register of film content
assessors.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (9) If the registration of an individual as a film content assessor is
suspended under this section for any period, then the Authority must,

                          31.12.2021
40  Films Act 1981  2020 Ed.

immediately after the period of suspension ends, reinstate the
individual’s name and particulars on the register of film content
assessors.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (10) In any proceedings under this section in relation to the
conviction of a film content assessor for a criminal offence, the
Authority may accept the conviction as final and conclusive.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (11) Any financial penalty imposed under this section may be
recovered by the Authority as a debt due to it.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (12) For the purpose of subsection (1)(h), a film content assessor
may be treated as having engaged in conduct that renders him or her
unfit to be a film content assessor if the film content assessor —

    (a) had assigned a classification rating for 2 or more films that
         are re-classified by the Authority under section 15; or

    (b) had assigned a classification rating for a film that is
         re-classified by the Authority under section 15(2) and —

    (i) the original classification is 2 or more levels lower
        than the re-classification of the film by the Authority;
        or

    (ii) the assessment of the content of the film that the film
         content assessor prepared and submitted to the
         Authority for the original classification is
         misleading or incorrect or contains grossly
         inadequate information.

                                                                                           [25/2018]

Register of film content assessors

 20C.—(1) The Authority must keep and maintain a register of film
content assessors containing the names and other relevant particulars
of all individuals who are registered as film content assessors under
this Act.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) The absence of the name of any individual from the register of
film content assessors is prima facie evidence that the individual is
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981  41

not a film content assessor registered under this Act or that the
individual’s registration is cancelled or suspended.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) The register of film content assessors must be published on the
Authority’s website, or on such other medium which is accessible to
members of the public as the Minister may require.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Offences involving unclassified films, etc.

 21.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person —

               (i) distributes or publicly exhibits an unclassified film;
                   or

              (ii) has in the person’s possession a film that is an
                   unclassified film, with the intention of distributing or
                   publicly exhibiting the film; and

       (b) the person knows or ought reasonably to have known that,
            or is reckless as to whether, the film is an unclassified film.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person distributes or publicly exhibits a film with a title
            that is not the same as the title by which the film is
            classified; and

       (b) the person knows or ought reasonably to have known that,
            or is reckless as to whether, the film’s title is not the same
            as the title by which the film is classified.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person distributes or publicly exhibits a film with
            contents that are not the same as that in which the film is
            classified; and

       (b) the person knows or ought reasonably to have known that,
            or is reckless as to whether, the film’s contents are not the
            same as that in which the film is classified.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

                          31.12.2021
42  Films Act 1981                    2020 Ed.

 (4) Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply to a film the contents of
which are modified, and the modification is only that mentioned in
section 17(3).

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (5) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person distributes a classified film —

    (i) without a classification label made available under
        section 18 for that film affixed to the film;

    (ii) affixed with a classification label showing a
         classification rating otherwise than in accordance
         with the classification assigned to that film under this
         Act; or

    (iii) affixed otherwise than in accordance with the
          manner prescribed (if any), with a classification
          label made available under section 18 in respect of
          that film; and

    (b) the person knows or ought reasonably to have known that,
         or is reckless as to whether —

    (i) no classification label made available under
        section 18 for that film is affixed to the film;

    (ii) a classification label showing a classification rating
         otherwise than in accordance with the classification
         assigned to that film under this Act is affixed to the
         film; or

    (iii) a classification label made available under section 18
          in respect of that film is affixed otherwise than in
          accordance with the manner prescribed,

           as the case may be.        [25/2018]
(6) A person commits an offence if —

    (a) the person distributes a classified film without the
         consumer advice applicable to the film displayed on the
         film or the container, wrapping, casing, box or other thing
         in or with which the film is distributed; and
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981  43

       (b) the person knows or ought reasonably to have known that,
            or is reckless as to whether the consumer advice applicable
            to the film is so displayed.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (7) Where conditions have been imposed under section 18(2) on the
classification certificate issued for a film and the conditions relate to
the distribution or public exhibition of the film to persons below
specified ages or at specified places, a person commits an offence if
the person distributes or publicly exhibits the film to an individual
knowingly, negligently or recklessly in contravention of any such
condition.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (8) A person who commits an offence under subsection (1), (2), (3),
(5), (6) or (7) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

(a) in respect of an offence under subsection (1), (2) or (3), to a
     fine not exceeding $40,000 or to imprisonment for a term
     not exceeding 6 months or to both; and

       (b) in respect of an offence under subsection (5), (6) or (7), to a
            fine not exceeding $5,000.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (9) In a prosecution of an offence for contravening subsection (7) in
relation to a distribution or public exhibition of a film to persons
below a specified age in contravention of a condition in the
classification certificate for that film, it is a defence for the
defendant to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that at or before
the time of the distribution or public exhibition, there was produced to
the defendant documentary evidence that might reasonably be
accepted —

(a) as applying to the person to whom the film was distributed
     or publicly exhibited; and

(b) as proving that the person was at least that specified age.

                                                                                                 [25/2018]

                          31.12.2021
44  Films Act 1981  2020 Ed.

 (10) A reference in this section to an unclassified film does not
include a reference to an obscene film or exempt film, or a party
political film or prohibited film.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Offences about advertisements for films

 22.—(1) A person must not publish an advertisement for a film that
is distributed or publicly exhibited or intended for distribution or
public exhibition if —

       (a) the advertisement —

               (i) is disapproved under section 22A; or

              (ii) was approved under section 22A and the approval is
                   then revoked under that section; and

       (b) the person knows or ought reasonably to have known that
            the advertisement —

               (i) is disapproved under section 22A; or

              (ii) was approved under section 22A and the approval is
                   then revoked under that section.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) If an advertisement for a film is approved under section 22A, a
person must not publish the advertisement in a form different from
the form in which it was approved, if the person knows or ought
reasonably to have known that the form of the advertisement is
different from the form in which the advertisement was approved.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) If an advertisement for a film is approved under section 22A,
and the advertisement is approved subject to conditions, a person
must not publish the advertisement except in accordance with those
conditions.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (4) A person who contravenes subsection (1), (2) or (3) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981                                   45

(5) This section does not apply to or in relation to —

(a) any advertisement for a film that is not distributed or
     publicly exhibited in Singapore;

(b) an advertisement, in an imported film that is in a form that
     cannot be modified, for a film that has not been distributed
     or publicly exhibited in Singapore (called the advertised
     film), whether or not that advertised film is later distributed
     or publicly exhibited in Singapore;

          (c) advertising by way of a product —

          (i) that refers to, or is derived from, a film;

          (ii) that is primarily intended to be distributed to the
               general public or to a section of the general public;
               and

          (iii) that a reasonable person would not consider to be a
                primary source of classification information for
                consumers about the film;

(d) any advertisement for an exempt film;

          (e) any trailer that is a classified film; and

          (f) any other advertisement for a film excluded by the Minister
              by order in the Gazette.

                                                                                                          [25/2018]

Approval of advertisements for films

 22A.—(1) Every advertisement for a film that is intended for
distribution or public exhibition must be submitted to the Authority
for approval.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) An application under subsection (1) for approval of an
advertisement for a film must —

       (a) be made to the Authority in the form and manner the
            Authority determines; and

       (b) be accompanied by —

               (i) a copy of the advertisement concerned;

                                                           31.12.2021
46  Films Act 1981                                2020 Ed.

    (ii) the prescribed fee, if any;

    (iii) such information as may be prescribed, if any; and

             (iv) such other information as the Authority may require
                   in that particular case.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) On receipt of an application under subsection (2), the
Authority —

    (a) may approve the advertisement to which the application
         relates, with or without conditions; or

    (b) may refuse to approve the advertisement.

                                                  [25/2018]

 (4) The Authority is entitled to disapprove, or revoke any approval
under this section for, an advertisement for a film if the film is a film
which the Authority must refuse classification because of section 16.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (5) The Authority may revoke any approval under this section for
an advertisement for a film if the film becomes unclassified or is
re-classified.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Measures to ensure compliance, etc.

 23.—(1) The Authority, an enforcement officer, or a classification
officer or licensing officer, may by written notice require any licensee
or other person (called a person of interest) to furnish, within a
reasonable period and in the form and manner specified in the notice,
all documents and information that —

       (a) relate to any matter which the Authority considers
            necessary —

               (i) to ensure that the provisions of this Act and its
                   subsidiary legislation, or any conditions imposed on
                   a licence or classification certificate, are being
                   complied with; or

              (ii) to otherwise carry out the functions or duties of or
                   assigned to the Authority by or under this Act; and
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981                                  47

       (b) are within the knowledge of that licensee or person of
            interest, or in or under the custody or control of that
            licensee or person, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) The power to require a licensee or person of interest to furnish
any document or information under subsection (1) includes the
power —

(a) to require that licensee or person of interest, or any
     individual who is or was an officer, agent or employee of
     the licensee or person of interest, to provide an explanation
     of the document or information;

(b) if the document or information is not furnished, to require
     the licensee or person of interest, or that individual
     mentioned in paragraph (a), to state, to the best of the
     knowledge and belief of that licensee, person or individual,
     where the document or information is; and

       (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
            form, to require the information to be made available to the
            Authority, enforcement officer, or classification officer or
            licensing officer (as the case may be) in legible form.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) The Authority is entitled without payment to keep any
document or information, or any copy or extract thereof, furnished
to it under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (4) For the purpose of determining whether the provisions of this
Act and its subsidiary legislation or any conditions imposed on a
licence or classification certificate, are being complied with, an
enforcement officer is entitled, at all reasonable times, to full and free
access to any place which the enforcement officer reasonably
believes is a place where films are distributed or publicly exhibited
and —

(a) to examine or observe any activity conducted in or on the
     place;

(b) to inspect and examine any thing in or on the place;

                          31.12.2021
48  Films Act 1981                                           2020 Ed.

    (c) to make any still or moving image or any recording of the
        place or any thing in or on the place;

    (d) to inspect any document in the place and take extracts
         from, or make copies of, any such document;

    (e) to take into or onto the place such equipment and materials
        as the enforcement officer requires for the purpose of
        exercising powers in relation to the place;

    (f) to operate electronic equipment in or on the place;

    (g) to secure a thing for a period not exceeding 24 hours if the
         thing is found in or on the place, where the enforcement
         officer believes on reasonable grounds that —

    (i) the thing is evidential material, or is used or intended
        to be used for the purpose of contravening any
        conditions imposed on a licence or classification
        certificate; and

    (ii) it is necessary to secure the thing in order to prevent
         it from being concealed, lost or destroyed before a
         warrant to seize the thing is obtained; and

       (h) to require any individual found in or on the place to answer
            any question (to the best of that individual’s knowledge,
            information and belief) and to furnish any document or
            information.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (5) The power under subsection (4)(f) to operate electronic
equipment in or on any place includes the power —

    (a) to use a disk, tape or other storage device that is in or on the
         place and can be used with the equipment or in association
         with the equipment;

    (b) to operate electronic equipment in or on the place to put the
         relevant data in documentary form and remove the
         documents so produced from the place; and

    (c) to operate electronic equipment in or on the place to
        transfer the relevant data to a disk, tape or other storage
        device that —
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981  49

          (i) is brought to the place for the exercise of the power;
              or

          (ii) is in or on the place and the use of which for that
               purpose has been agreed in writing by the occupier of
               the place,

            and to remove the disk, tape or other storage device from
            that place.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (6) The power under subsection (4)(g) to secure any thing which is
found during the exercise of enforcement powers in or on any place
includes the power —

(a) to secure the thing by locking it up, placing a guard or any
     other means; and

      (b) to prohibit any person from dealing with such thing.

                                                                                                         [25/2018]

(7) A person —

(a) who intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any
     document or information which the person has been
     required by a notice under subsection (1), or under
     subsection (4)(h), to furnish; or

(b) who, in furnishing any document or information required
     under subsection (1), or under subsection (4)(h), makes
     any statement which the person knows or ought reasonably
     to know that, or is reckless as to whether, it is false or
     misleading in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (8) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do anything
required of the person by notice under subsection (1), or under
subsection (4)(h), shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

                          31.12.2021
50  Films Act 1981  2020 Ed.

 (9) However, an individual or a person is not subject to a
requirement under subsection (4)(h) or (8) if —

    (a) the individual or person does not possess the document or
         information required; or

       (b) the individual or person has taken all reasonable steps
            available to the individual or person to obtain the document
            or information required and has been unable to obtain it.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (10) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of subsection (8), it is a
reasonable excuse for a person to refuse or fail to furnish any
information, produce any document or answer any question if doing
so might tend to incriminate that person.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (11) The references in this section —

    (a) to a licensee include a reference to every person who is a
         class licensee or who is registered as a film content
         assessor; and

    (b) to documents or information include a reference to any
         film (whether classified or not) and any advertisement for a
         film.

                                                                                                     [25/2018]

Appeal against classification decisions
 24.—(1) In this section and section 24A, “appealable classification

decision” means a decision by the Authority —

       (a) refusing to classify or re-classify a film under section 15
            because —

               (i) it is against national security; or

              (ii) of any other ground in section 16;

       (b) classifying or re-classifying a film under section 15;

       (c) determining the consumer advice to apply to a film under
            section 15;
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981                    51

(d) imposing conditions under section 18 —

          (i) about the display of the classification ratings,
              markings and consumer advice (if any), on any
              advertisement for the film or on the container,
              wrapping, casing, box or other thing in or with
              which the film is to be distributed; or

          (ii) relating to the circumstances of distribution or public
               exhibition of a film to which any classification
               certificate relates;

          (e) revoking the classification for a film under section 17(2);
              or

          (f) disapproving, or revoking the approval of, an
              advertisement for a film under section 22A, or imposing
              conditions on such an approval.

                                                                                                          [25/2018]

 (2) Any of the following persons who is aggrieved by an appealable
classification decision relating to a film (each called an appellant)
may appeal against the decision:

(a) the person who applied for classification or
     re-classification of a film;

(b) the person who is the maker of a classified film if the
     applicant under section 14 for classification or
     re-classification of the film is not the maker;

          (c) the person who intends to distribute or publicly exhibit a
              film if the applicant under section 14 for classification or
              re-classification of the film is not that person;

(d) the film content assessor whose classification for a film is
     revoked under section 15(2).

                                                                                                 [25/2018]

 (3) For an appealable classification decision described in
subsection (1)(f), an applicant for approval of an advertisement for
a film under section 22A who is aggrieved by the decision relating to
that advertisement (also called an appellant) may appeal against the
decision.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

                                            31.12.2021
52  Films Act 1981                       2020 Ed.

 (4) An appeal against an appealable classification decision
described in subsection (1)(a)(i) may only be made —

    (a) to the Minister; and

       (b) within 30 days after the applicant is notified of that
            decision (called the first appeal period) or any longer
            period that the Minister allows in exceptional
            circumstances before the end of the first appeal period.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (5) An appeal against any other appealable classification decision
described in subsection (1) may only be made —

    (a) to the Committee of Appeal; and
    (b) within —

    (i) 30 days after the applicant is notified of an
        appealable classification decision (called the first
        appeal period) or such longer period as the
        Committee of Appeal allows in exceptional
        circumstances before the end of the first appeal
        period; or

              (ii) for an appellant who is a film content assessor,
                   30 days after the notice of the film’s re-classification
                   is first published pursuant to section 15B(2)(b)
                   (called the first appeal period) or any longer period
                   that the Committee of Appeal allows in exceptional
                   circumstances before the end of the first appeal
                   period.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (6) Every appeal under this section must be made in the manner
prescribed or, if not prescribed, in the manner required by the
Minister or the Committee of Appeal, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (7) An appealable classification decision takes effect despite any
appeal against the decision and remains in effect until the decision is
varied or reversed on appeal.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981                                        53

Minister’s decision on appeal against classification decisions

 24A.—(1) The Minister may determine an appeal against an
appealable classification decision described in section 24(1)(a)(i) —

(a) by confirming the appealable classification decision; or

      (b) by reversing the refusal to classify the film in question and
           referring that film to the Authority for classification.

                                                                                                         [25/2018]

(2) The Minister’s decision under subsection (1) is final.

                                                                                                         [25/2018]

 (3) Before making his or her decision under subsection (1) and for
the purpose of forming an opinion on which to base such decision, the
Minister —

(a) must consult the Committee of Appeal; and

(b) may consult any other person,

in respect of the film; but the Minister is not bound by any advice
from the consultation.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (4) Where a film is referred under subsection (1) for classification,
the appellant concerned must, for the purposes of section 15, be taken
to have made an application under section 14 for classification of the
film.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Committee of Appeal

 25.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, there is to be a Committee of
Appeal consisting of at least 15 but not more than 21 members to be
appointed by the Minister.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), each member of the
Committee of Appeal holds office for such period (not exceeding
3 years) as the Minister may specify in the member’s letter of
appointment.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) The Minister may at any time revoke the appointment of any
member of the Committee of Appeal as the Minister considers

                                               31.12.2021
54  Films Act 1981  2020 Ed.

necessary in the interest of the effective performance of the functions
of the Committee of Appeal under this Act, or in the public interest.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (4) A member of the Committee of Appeal may at any time, by
letter addressed to the Minister, resign his or her membership.

 (5) If a premature vacancy occurs in the office of any member of the
Committee of Appeal, the Minister may appoint a person to fill the
vacancy and hold that office for the remainder of the term for which
the vacating member was appointed; and “premature vacancy” means
a vacancy that occurs in the office of a member of the Committee of
Appeal otherwise than because of the expiry of the term of office.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (6) The Chairperson and the Vice-Chairperson of the Committee of
Appeal are to be appointed by the Minister.

 (7) At any meeting of the Committee of Appeal in the absence of
both the Chairperson and the Vice-Chairperson, the members present
are to elect one of their number to preside at that meeting.

 (8) In addition to the Chairperson’s general vote, the Chairperson of
the Committee of Appeal or member presiding at a meeting of the
Committee has, in the case of an equality of votes, a casting vote.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (9) A quorum for a meeting of the Committee of Appeal is the
number that is at least one-third the number of its members.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (10) All members of the Committee of Appeal are deemed to be
public servants within the meaning of the Penal Code 1871.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Powers of Committee of Appeal

 26.—(1) On receipt of an appeal under section 24, the Committee
of Appeal may, after considering the matters mentioned in
section 15(5), make an order —

       (a) dismissing the appeal and confirming the Authority’s
            decision; or
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981                                  55

(b) varying or reversing the Authority’s decision —

          (i) by classifying or re-classifying the film;

          (ii) by modifying the consumer advice in respect of a
               film; or

          (iii) by modifying the conditions imposed under
                section 18(2) or (3) in relation to the classification
                certificate issued in respect of the film.

                                                                                                  [25/2018]

 (2) The Committee of Appeal must deal with an appeal under
section 24 in the same way that the Authority deals with an
application for classification or re-classification of a film, and
sections 15, 16 and 17 apply for this purpose as if references in each
of those sections to the Authority were references to the Committee of
Appeal.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

(3) The decision of the Committee of Appeal is final.

 (4) The Committee of Appeal must without delay communicate its
decision on any appeal to the Authority, and the Authority must, if
necessary, cancel a classification certificate or issue a fresh
classification certificate, or both, in respect of the film and take
any other action that is necessary to give effect to that decision.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Minister may order Committee of Appeal to inspect any film

 27.—(1) The Minister may, whenever he or she thinks it necessary
or desirable, order the Committee of Appeal to cause to be exhibited
before the Committee of Appeal any film in respect of which the
decision or deemed decision by the Authority is refused classification
other than on the ground that it is against national security to be
classified, or any film classified or deemed classified or re-classified
by the Authority, for the purpose of considering whether the film
should or should not be classified, so classified or be re-classified.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) For the purpose of exercising its power under subsection (1) in
respect of a film, the Committee of Appeal may give an order in
writing to —

                                                          31.12.2021
56  Films Act 1981  2020 Ed.

    (a) a licensee or class licensee who is distributing or publicly
         exhibiting the film;

    (b) an applicant under section 14 for classification or
         re-classification of the film; or

       (c) a maker or other person in possession of the film that is an
            unclassified film.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) An order under subsection (2) may require a person given the
order to do the following within a period specified in the order:

    (a) to provide or make available a copy of the film for
         screening or demonstration before the Committee of
         Appeal;

    (b) to demonstrate the film before the Committee of Appeal;

    (c) in the case of a film that is designed for use wholly or
        principally as a video game, to provide to the Committee of
        Appeal recordings of the gameplay;

       (d) to provide such other information about the film that the
            Committee of Appeal may require in any particular case.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (4) The Committee of Appeal may after such exhibition make in
respect of the film any order specified in section 26(1), and
section 26(4) applies to that order.

 (5) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do
anything required of the person by an order under subsection (2)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (6) To avoid doubt, nothing in this section limits the Authority’s
powers under section 15.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Appeal to Minister against other decisions of Authority

 28.—(1) In this section, “appealable decision” means a decision by
the Authority —

       (a) refusing the grant of the licence under section 7;
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981                        57

(b) taking regulatory action under section 11;

          (c) refusing to register, or to renew the registration of, an
              individual as a film content assessor under section 19; or

       (d) taking regulatory action against a film content assessor
            under section 20B.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) Any of the following persons who is aggrieved by an appealable
decision in relation to that person (each called an appellant) may
appeal against the decision:

(a) an applicant for a licence, for an appealable decision in
     subsection (1)(a);

(b) a former licensee or former class licensee, for an
     appealable decision in subsection (1)(b) that is revoking
     the licence with respect to the former licensee or
     disapplying the class licence with respect to the former
     class licensee;

          (c) a licensee or class licensee, for any other appealable
              decision in subsection (1)(b);

(d) an applicant for a registration or renewal of the registration
     as a film content assessor, for an appealable decision in
     subsection (1)(c);

       (e) a film content assessor or former film content assessor
            affected by the appealable decision in subsection (1)(d).

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) An appeal under this section may only be made by an
appellant —

(a) to the Minister in the manner prescribed or, if not
     prescribed, in the manner required by the Minister; and

(b) within 14 days after the appellant is notified of an
     appealable decision (called the first appeal period) or
     any longer period that the Minister allows in exceptional
     circumstances before the end of the first appeal period.

                                                                                                 [25/2018]

                                                31.12.2021
58  Films Act 1981  2020 Ed.

 (4) The Minister may determine an appeal under this section by
confirming, varying or reversing the Authority’s decision in
subsection (1) that is the subject of the appeal; and the Minister’s
decision is final.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (5) An appealable decision takes effect despite any appeal against
the decision and remains in effect until the decision is varied or
reversed on appeal.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (6) In any appeal under this section against any decision of the
Authority in relation to the conviction of an appellant for an offence,
the Minister may accept the appellant’s conviction as final and
conclusive.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Disposal of unclaimed films

 28A. Any film that is retained by the Authority under section 14(3)
or deposited with the Authority under section 18(7), and is not
claimed by the applicant for classification or re-classification of the
film may be destroyed or otherwise disposed of as the Authority
thinks fit —

       (a) within 6 months after the date of the Authority’s decision
            under section 15; or

       (b) if there is any appeal under section 24, within 6 months
            after the date of the decision of the Minister or the
            Committee of Appeal (as the case may be) on appeal.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Offences involving dealings in obscene films

 29.—(1) Any person who makes or reproduces any obscene film
(whether or not for the purposes of exhibition or distribution to any
other person), knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the film
to be obscene shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $40,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 2 years or to both; and
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981  59

       (b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
            not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) Any person who imports any obscene film knowing or having
reasonable cause to believe the film to be obscene shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) to a fine not exceeding $40,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

       (b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
            not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) Any person who distributes, or has in his or her possession for
the purposes of distributing, to any other person an obscene film
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the film to be obscene
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) to a fine not exceeding $80,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 2 years or to both; and

       (b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
            not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (4) Any person who exhibits or has in his or her possession for the
purposes of exhibiting to any other person an obscene film knowing
or having reasonable cause to believe the film to be obscene shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) to a fine not exceeding $40,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 2 years; and

(b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
     not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
     exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                                                 [25/2018]

                          31.12.2021
60  Films Act 1981           2020 Ed.

Possession of obscene films

 30.—(1) Any person who has in his or her possession any obscene
film shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) Any person who has in his or her possession any obscene film
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the film to be obscene
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) to a fine not exceeding $40,000 or to imprisonment for a
         term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

    (b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
         not exceeding $80,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                                                     [25/2018]

Advertising obscene films

 31.—(1) Any person who, for the purposes of distributing or
exhibiting any obscene film to any other person, advertises the film
by any means shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) Any person who, for the purposes of distributing or exhibiting
any obscene film to any other person, advertises the film by any
means knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the film to be
obscene shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

       (b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
            not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]
2020 Ed.               Films Act 1981           61

(3) In this section —

“advertise”, in relation to a film, includes —

          (a) publicly exhibiting, displaying or supplying any
               advertising poster relating to the film;

          (b) announcing orally or by any means (including
               electronic transmission, fax transmission, electronic
               mail or other similar means of communication) other
               than by broadcasting any offer to sell or supply the
               film; or

          (c) distributing or circulating any advertisement relating
              to the film;

“advertisement” includes any advertising poster, circular,
   catalogue or price list;

“advertising poster” means any poster, placard, video slick,
   photograph or other pictorial matter that is intended for use in
   the advertising or exhibition of a film to the public and
   includes a miniature representation or enlarged
   representation of the whole or part of any such poster.

                                                [25/2018]

 (4) For the purposes of this section, an advertisement is deemed to
be an advertisement publicly displayed if it is displayed in or so as to
be visible from —

(a) any public road; or

(b) any place to which the public have or are permitted to have
     access (whether on payment or otherwise).

Offences involving children and young persons

 32.—(1) Any person who causes or procures any child or young
person or, having custody, charge or care of a child or young person,
allows that child or young person to commit or abet in the
commission of any offence mentioned in section 29, 30 or 31 shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $80,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

                                                31.12.2021
62  Films Act 1981  2020 Ed.

       (b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
            not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [ 25/2018]

 (2) If it is proved that a child has committed or abetted in the
commission of any offence mentioned in section 30(1) or 31(1), the
person having the custody, charge or care of the child at the time the
offence was committed is presumed, until the contrary is proved, to
have allowed the child to commit or abet in the commission of the
offence.

Making, distribution and exhibition of party political films

 33. Any person who —

       (a) imports any party political film;

       (b) makes or reproduces any party political film;

       (c) distributes, or has in his or her possession for the purposes
            of distributing, to any other person any party political film;
            or

       (d) exhibits, or has in his or her possession for the purposes of
            exhibiting, to any other person any party political film,

knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the film to be a party
political film shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years.

Powers for enforcement purposes

 34.—(1) This section provides for the enforcement powers that an
enforcement officer may exercise for either or both of the following
purposes:

       (a) determining whether the following are being complied
            with:

               (i) the provisions of this Act and its subsidiary
                   legislation;
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981                                      63

          (ii) any conditions imposed on a licence or classification
               certificate;

       (b) determining whether information furnished to the
            Authority under a provision of this Act or its subsidiary
            legislation is correct.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) However, an enforcement officer is not authorised by this
section —

(a) to enter a place for a purpose in subsection (1) unless —

          (i) the occupier of the place consents to the entry; or

          (ii) the entry is made under a warrant of a court;

(b) to search a place for a purpose in subsection (1) unless the
     search is made under a warrant of a court; or

       (c) to seize any thing in or on any place for a purpose in
            subsection (1) unless the seizure is made under a warrant of
            a court.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) Subject to subsection (2), the following are the enforcement
powers that an enforcement officer may exercise in relation to a place
for a purpose in subsection (1):

(a) to enter any place;

(b) to search the place and any thing in or on the place;

          (c) to examine or observe any activity conducted in or on the
              place;

(d) to inspect and examine any thing in or on the place;

          (e) to make any still or moving image or any recording of the
              place or any thing in or on the place;

          (f) to inspect any document in the place and to take extracts
              from, or make copies of, any such document;

(g) to take into or onto the place such equipment and materials
     as the enforcement officer requires for the purpose of
     exercising powers in relation to the place;

                          31.12.2021
64  Films Act 1981                                           2020 Ed.

    (h) to operate electronic equipment in or on the place;

    (i) to secure a thing for a period not exceeding 24 hours if the
        thing is found in or on the place during the exercise of
        enforcement powers and the enforcement officer believes
        on reasonable grounds that —

    (i) the thing is evidential material, or is intended to be
        used for the purpose of contravening any conditions
        imposed on a licence or classification certificate; and

    (ii) it is necessary to secure the thing in order to prevent
         it from being concealed, lost or destroyed before a
         warrant to seize the thing is obtained;

    (j) to seize any thing that is found in or on the place during the
        exercise of enforcement powers that the enforcement
        officer reasonably suspects is evidential material;

       (k) to require any individual found in or on the place to answer
            any question (to the best of that individual’s knowledge,
            information and belief) and to furnish any document or
            information.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (4) In addition, an enforcement officer may, for a purpose in
subsection (1), require any person in Singapore whom the
enforcement officer has reason to believe to be acquainted with
any facts or circumstances relevant to that purpose to attend before
the enforcement officer to answer any question (to the best of that
person’s knowledge, information and belief) and to furnish any
document or information.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (5) The power under subsection (3)(h) to operate electronic
equipment in or on any place includes the power —

    (a) to use a disk, tape or other storage device that is in or on the
         place and can be used with the equipment or in association
         with the equipment;

    (b) to operate electronic equipment in or on the place to put the
         relevant data in documentary form and remove the
         documents so produced from the place; and
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981  65

          (c) to operate electronic equipment in or on the place to
              transfer the relevant data to a disk, tape or other storage
              device that —

          (i) is brought to the place for the exercise of the power;
              or

          (ii) is in or on the place and the use of which for that
               purpose has been agreed in writing by the occupier of
               the place,

            and to remove the disk, tape or other storage device from
            that place.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (6) The power under subsection (3)(i) to secure any thing which is
found during the exercise of enforcement powers in or on any place
includes the power —

(a) to secure the thing by locking it up, placing a guard or any
     other means; or

       (b) to prohibit any person from dealing with the thing.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (7) The power under subsection (3)(j) to seize any thing under
warrant includes the power to seize any thing which is similarly so
found that is not evidential material of the kind specified in the
warrant if —

(a) in the course of searching for the kind of evidential
     material specified in the warrant, the enforcement officer
     finds the thing; and

       (b) the thing is evidential material for another offence under
            this Act or its subsidiary legislation.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (8) Sections 370, 371 and 372 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010
apply, with the necessary modifications, when an enforcement officer
seizes any thing under subsection (3)(j).

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (9) However, an individual or person is not subject to a requirement
under subsection (3)(k) or (4) if —

                          31.12.2021
66  Films Act 1981                       2020 Ed.

    (a) the individual or person does not possess the document or
         information required; or

       (b) the individual or person has taken all reasonable steps
            available to the individual or person to obtain the document
            or information required and has been unable to obtain it.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (10) Any statement made by any individual in answer to a question
under subsection (3)(k) or (4) must —

    (a) be reduced to writing;

    (b) be read over to the individual;

    (c) if the individual does not understand English, be
        interpreted in a language that the individual understands;
        and

       (d) after correction, if necessary, be signed by that individual.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (11) An enforcement officer may be assisted by other individuals in
exercising enforcement powers under this section or section 34A if
that assistance is necessary and reasonable.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (12) The references in this section to documents or information
include a reference to any film (whether classified or not) and any
advertisement for a film.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Special enforcement powers

 34A.—(1) Despite section 34, a police officer or an enforcement
officer may, without warrant, exercise the enforcement powers in that
section and special enforcement powers under this section, in relation
to a place where the police officer or enforcement officer —

       (a) suspects on reasonable grounds that any of the following
            offences has been or is being committed in or on that place:

               (i) an offence under section 6(2) for contravening
                   section 6(1)(c);

              (ii) an offence under section 21(1), 29(1), (2), (3) or (4),
                   30(1) or (2), 31(1) or (2), 32(1), 33 or 35(2); or
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981                    67

(b) has reasonable cause to believe that —

          (i) evidence of the commission of an offence mentioned
              in paragraph (a)(i) or (ii) can be found in or on that
              place; and

          (ii) it is necessary to secure the evidence in order to
               prevent it from being concealed, lost or destroyed.

                                                                                                 [25/2018]

 (2) The following are the special enforcement powers that a police
officer or an enforcement officer may exercise in relation to a place
under subsection (1):

(a) to enter the place, using such force as is reasonably
     necessary to obtain entry to the place, and to search the
     place;

(b) to detain any individual found in or on the place until the
     search of the place is complete;

          (c) to seize any film, advertisement for a film, document, or
              equipment that is used in the commission of any offence
              specified in subsection (1)(a) and found in or on the place,
              and that the officer reasonably suspects is evidential
              material.

                                                                                                          [25/2018]

 (3) Any person claiming any thing seized under this section or
section 34 may, within 48 hours after the seizure, complain about it to
a Magistrate, who may determine the matter as follows:

(a) by confirming or disallowing the seizure in whole or part;

(b) by ordering that the thing seized be restored to its owner,
     subject to such condition which the Magistrate may think
     fit to impose to ensure that the seized thing is preserved for
     any purpose for which it may subsequently be required;

          (c) by ordering payment to be made to the owner of the thing
              seized of an amount that the Magistrate considers will
              compensate the owner for any loss or depreciation
              resulting from the seizure.

                                                                                                          [25/2018]

                                            31.12.2021
68  Films Act 1981  2020 Ed.

 (4) Subject to subsection (3), sections 370, 371 and 372 of the
Criminal Procedure Code 2010 apply, with the necessary
modifications, when a police officer or an enforcement officer
seizes any thing under this section or section 34.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

False information and obstruction of performance of official
duties

 34B.—(1) If —

       (a) a person furnishes a document or gives information
            (whether orally or in writing) to the Minister, the
            Authority, the Committee of Appeal, a classification
            officer or a licensing officer;

       (b) the document is furnished, or the statement is made or the
            information is given, for or in connection with —

               (i) an application (whether for that person or for
                   another) for a licence, a permit under section 12 or
                   a renewal of such a licence or permit;

              (ii) an application (whether for that person or for
                   another) for approval under section 22A;

             (iii) an application to register as a film content assessor
                   under section 19, or to renew such registration;

             (iv) a representation made under section 7(5) or 20B(3),
                   or pursuant to a written notice under section 10A(5)
                   or 11(3); or

              (v) an appeal under section 24 or 28;

       (c) the document, statement or information is false or
            misleading, or the statement or information omits any
            matter or thing without which the statement or information
            (as the case may be) is misleading; and
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981  69

(d) the person knows, or ought reasonably to know, that the
     document is false or misleading, or that the statement or
     information is as described in paragraph (c),

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the document, statement or
information is not false or misleading in a material particular, or if the
statement or information does not omit any matter or thing without
which the statement or information (as the case may be) is misleading
in a material particular.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) A person who knowingly obstructs or prevents, or attempts to
obstruct or prevent —

(a) a classification officer or a licensing officer in the
     discharge of his or her powers or duties under this Act
     or its subsidiary legislation;

(b) an enforcement officer from exercising any of the officer’s
     powers under section 23, 34 or 34A; or

          (c) a police officer from exercising any of the officer’s powers
              under section 34A,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (4) A person —

(a) who intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any
     document or information that the person has been
     required by or under section 34(3)(k) or (4) to furnish; or

                          31.12.2021
70  Films Act 1981  2020 Ed.

    (b) who, in furnishing any document or information required
         by or under section 34(3)(k) or (4), makes any statement
         that the person knows or ought reasonably to know that, or
         is reckless as to whether, it is false or misleading in a
         material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (5) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do anything
required of the person under section 34(3)(k) or (4) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (6) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of subsection (5), it is a
reasonable excuse for a person to refuse or fail to produce any
document, furnish any information or answer any question if doing so
might tend to incriminate that person.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Minister may prohibit possession, exhibition or distribution of
any film

 35.—(1) Despite the provisions of this Act if the Minister is of the
opinion that the possession, exhibition or distribution of any film
would be contrary to the public interest, the Minister may by order in
the Gazette prohibit the possession, exhibition or distribution of that
film by any person.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) Any person who has in his or her possession or who exhibits or
distributes any film the possession, exhibition or distribution of
which has been prohibited under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both, and the film shall be destroyed or otherwise disposed of as the
Minister thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981            71

Protection from personal liability

 36. No liability shall lie personally against any member of the
Committee of Appeal who, acting in good faith and with reasonable
care, does or omits to do anything in the execution or purported
execution of this Act.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Service of documents

 37.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by or under this
Act to be served on a person may be served as described in this
section.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) A document may be served on an individual —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
            if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
            address or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult person apparently residing there, or at the
            individual’s business address with an adult person
            apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number given by the
            individual as the fax number for the service of documents
            under this Act; or

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s email address.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) A document may be served on a partnership (other than a
limited liability partnership) —

       (a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer of the
            partnership;

                                    31.12.2021
72  Films Act 1981  2020 Ed.

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the partnership’s business address;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
            partnership’s business address; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s email address.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (4) A document may be served on a body corporate (including a
limited liability partnership) or an unincorporated association —

    (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
         body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
         limited liability partnership’s manager;

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the body corporate’s or unincorporated association’s
         registered office or principal office in Singapore;

    (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the body
        corporate’s or unincorporated association’s registered
        office or principal office in Singapore; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the body corporate’s or
            unincorporated association’s email address.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (5) Service of a document on a person under this section takes
effect —

    (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
         successful transmission is received, on the day of the
         transmission;

    (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
         becomes capable of being retrieved by the person; and

       (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, on the
            second day after the day the document was posted (even if
            it is returned undelivered).

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (6) A document may be served on a person under this Act by email
only with that person’s prior written consent.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]
2020 Ed.                  Films Act 1981                    73

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (8) In this section —

“business address” means —

          (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
               last known place of business in Singapore; and

          (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
               liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
               last known place of business in Singapore;

“email address” means the last email address given by the
   addressee concerned as the email address for the service of
   documents under this Act;

“residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
   place of residence in Singapore.

                                                                                                   [25/2018]

Offences by corporations

 38.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

(a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
     that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
     apparent authority; and

(b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

                                                          [25/2018]

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

(a) who is —

          (i) an officer of the corporation; or

          (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
               corporation and in a position to influence the conduct

                                                          31.12.2021
74  Films Act 1981                                    2020 Ed.

                of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                the offence; and

    (b) who —

    (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
        effect the commission of the offence;

    (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
         knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
         commission of the offence by the corporation; or

    (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
          offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
          type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
          take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
          commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

    (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (6) In this section —

    “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
       meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
       Act 2005;
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981                75

“officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
   partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
   officer of the corporation, and includes —

          (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

          (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
               members, any of those members as if the member
               were a director of the corporation;

“state of mind” of a person includes —

          (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
               of the person; and

          (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
               or purpose.

                                                                                                 [25/2018]

 (7) This section does not apply to or in relation to an offence under
this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation committed by a
corporation before 29 April 2019.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 38A.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it
is necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated
association or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct,
evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

                                        31.12.2021
76                Films Act 1981                      2020 Ed.

    (a) who is —

    (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
        member of its governing body;

    (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

    (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
          unincorporated association or partnership and in a
          position to influence the conduct of that
          unincorporated association or partnership in
          relation to the commission of the offence; and

    (b) who —

    (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
        effect the commission of the offence;

    (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
         knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
         commission of the offence by the unincorporated
         association or partnership; or

    (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
          offence by the unincorporated association or
          partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
          be or is being committed, and failed to take all
          reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
          that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership, and shall be liable on conviction to be
punished accordingly.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof as that
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

    (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or
2020 Ed.  Films Act 1981                                     77

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not that unincorporated association
or partnership is convicted of the offence.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (6) In this section —

“officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
   a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
   member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
   and includes —

          (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
               president, secretary or member of a committee of the
               unincorporated association; and

          (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;
“state of mind” of a person includes —

          (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
               of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (7) This section does not apply to or in relation to an offence under
this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation committed by an
unincorporated association or a partnership before 29 April 2019.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Composition of offences

 38B.—(1) An enforcement officer may compound any offence
under this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence, by
collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having committed
the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the following:

                          31.12.2021
78               Films Act 1981  2020 Ed.

    (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
         prescribed for the offence;

    (b) $5,000.

                                 [25/2018]

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

Court for trial of offence

 39. Any offence under this Act may be tried by a District Court or a
Magistrate’s Court and that Court, despite any other written law, has
jurisdiction to impose the maximum penalty provided for by this Act.

Payment of fees, etc.

 39A. Except as otherwise provided in this Act or any other Act, all
fees and other moneys collected under this Act or its subsidiary
legislation are to be paid to the Authority.

                                                                                                           [22/2016]

Exemption from Act

 40.—(1) This Act does not apply to or in relation to any film that is
made, distributed or exhibited by or under the direction and control of
the Government.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]

 (2) The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette and subject to
such conditions as the Minister thinks fit to specify in that
notification, exempt from all or any of the provisions of this Act —

       (a) any person or class of persons;

       (b) any film or class of films; or

       (c) any advertisement for a film or class of such
            advertisements.

                                                                                                           [25/2018]
2020 Ed.     Films Act 1981                       79

Regulations

 41.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for, or in respect of,
every purpose which is considered necessary for carrying out the
provisions of this Act and for the prescribing of any matter that is
authorised or required under this Act to be so prescribed.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may by such
regulations —

(a) prescribe fees to be charged under this Act;

(b) prescribe the duties of licensees in importing, distributing
     or publicly exhibiting films in the course of business;

          (c) prescribe the kind and amount of security to be given under
              this Act;

(d) provide that all cinemas or any class of cinemas must show
     not less than the prescribed number or prescribed
     proportion of films of a specified class or from a
     specified country of origin;

          (e) provide that all cinemas or any class of cinemas must show
              not more than a prescribed number or a prescribed
              proportion of films of a specified class or from a
              specified country of origin;

          (f) prescribe the manner in which classification labels,
              classification ratings and consumer advice (if any) are to
              be affixed to a film, displayed in any film, or displayed in
              an advertisement for a film;

(g) require the appointment by licensees of film content
     assessors registered under section 19;

(h) prescribe the duties of persons registered as film content
     assessors in connection with the assessment of the content
     of films;

          (i) prescribe circumstances in which an assessment by a film
              content assessor is taken to be misleading, incorrect or
              grossly inadequate, or to contain misleading, incorrect or
              grossly inadequate information;

                                                  31.12.2021
80  Films Act 1981  2020 Ed.

    (j) provide for the manner in which an appeal may be made to
        the Minister or the Committee of Appeal under section 24
        or 28 (as the case may be) and the procedure to be adopted
        in hearing such appeals;

    (k) provide that any contravention of any provision of the
        regulations shall be an offence punishable with a fine not
        exceeding $5,000; and

    (l) provide for any transitional, saving and other
        consequential, incidental and supplemental provisions
        that the Minister considers necessary or expedient.

                                                                                                    [25/2018]
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                              FILMS ACT 1981

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                  PART 1
           CINEMATOGRAPH FILMS ORDINANCE
           (CHAPTER 207, 1936 REVISED EDITION)

1. Ordinance 4 of 1924 — Cinematograph Films Ordinance, 1924

Bill                     : G.N. No. 1817/1923

First Reading            : 17 December 1923

Second Reading           : 18 February 1924

Select Committee Report  : Information not available

Notice of Amendments     : 14 April 1924

Third Reading            : 30 June 1924

Commencement             : 12 July 1924

Note: This Ordinance repealed the provisions concerning the exhibition of
        films in Ordinance No. 106 (Theatres) (1920 Revised Edition).

2. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 200 (Cinematograph Films)

Operation                : 1 August 1926

3. Ordinance 5 of 1928 — Cinematograph Films Ordinance, 1928

Bill                     : G.N. No. 2124/1927

First Reading            : 12 December 1927

Second Reading           : 30 January 1928

Notice of Amendments     : 26 March 1928

Third Reading            : 26 March 1928

                                                      31.12.2021
                      ii

Commencement          : 18 April 1928

4. Ordinance 23 of 1929 — Cinematograph Films (Amendment) Ordinance,
                                   1929

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1987/1929

First Reading         : 28 October 1929

Second Reading        : 9 December 1929

Notice of Amendments  : 9 December 1929

Third Reading         : 9 December 1929

Commencement          : 16 December 1929

5. Ordinance 13 of 1932 — Cinematograph Films (Amendment) Ordinance,
                                   1932

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1448/1932

First Reading         : 8 August 1932

Second Reading        : 19 October 1932

Notice of Amendments  : 19 October 1932

Third Reading         : 19 October 1932

Commencement          : 9 November 1932

6. Ordinance 14 of 1935 — Cinematograph Films Ordinance, 1935

Bill                  : G.N. No. 5/1935

First Reading         : 18 February 1935

Second Reading        : 15 April 1935

Notice of Amendments  : 15 April 1935

Third Reading         : 15 April 1935

Commencement          : 8 May 1935

7. 1936 Revised Edition — Cinematograph Films Ordinance (Chapter 207)

Operation             : 1 September 1936

                                  PART 2
                 CINEMATOGRAPH FILMS ACT
           (CHAPTER 239, 1970 REVISED EDITION)

8. Ordinance 25 of 1953 — Cinematograph Films Ordinance, 1953

Bill                  : 50/1952
                         iii

First Reading            : 16 December 1952

Second Reading           : 25 February 1953

Select Committee Report  : Council Paper No. 36 of 1953

Notice of Amendments     : 21 July 1953

Third Reading            : 21 July 1953

Commencement             : 8 January 1954

9. Ordinance 8 of 1956 — Cinematograph Films (Amendment) Ordinance,
                                  1956

Bill                     : 40/1956

First Reading            : 8 February 1956

Second Reading           : 7 March 1956

Notice of Amendments     : 7 March 1956

Third Reading            : 7 March 1956

Commencement             : 29 March 1956

10. 1955 Revised Edition — Cinematograph Films Ordinance (Chapter 213)

Operation                : 1 July 1956

11. Ordinance 47 of 1959 — Cinematograph Films (Amendment) Ordinance,
                                    1959

Bill                     : Information not available

First, Second and Third  : 13 August 1959
Readings

Commencement             : 21 August 1959 (except section 5)
                               14 October 1960 (section 5)

12. Ordinance 71 of 1959 — Transfer of Powers Ordinance, 1959
     (Amendments made by section 4 read with the First Schedule to the above
     Ordinance)

Bill                     : 30/1959

First Reading            : 22 September 1959

Second and Third Readings : 11 November 1959

Commencement             : 20 November 1959 (section 4 read
                               with the First Schedule)
                      iv

13. Ordinance 72 of 1959 — Transfer of Powers (No. 2) Ordinance, 1959
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the First Schedule to the above
     Ordinance)

Bill                  : 31/1959

First Reading         : 22 September 1959

Second Reading        : 11 November 1959

Notice of Amendments  : 11 November 1959

Third Reading         : 11 November 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959 (section 2 read
                            with the First Schedule)

14. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 177/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 3) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

15. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 179/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 5) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

16. 1970 Revised Edition — Cinematograph Films Act (Chapter 239)

Operation             : 31 July 1971

17. Act 15 of 1979 — Cinematograph Films (Amendment) Act, 1979

Bill                  : 15/1979

First Reading         : 14 March 1979

Second and Third Readings : 30 March 1979

Commencement          : 4 May 1979

                            PART 3
                      FILMS ACT 1981
                (2020 REVISED EDITION)

18. Act 22 of 1981 — Films Act, 1981

Bill                  : 22/1981

First Reading         : 21 July 1981

Second Reading        : 14 August 1981

Notice of Amendments  : 14 August 1981

Third Reading         : 14 August 1981
               v

Commencement   : 1 October 1981

19. 1985 Revised Edition — Films Act (Chapter 107)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

20. Act 6 of 1997 — Port of Singapore Authority (Dissolution) Act 1997
     (Amendments made by section 15(2) of the above Act)

Bill           : 5/1997

First Reading  : 11 July 1997

Second and Third Readings : 25 August 1997

Commencement   : 1 October 1997 (section 15(2))

21. Act 10 of 1998 — Films (Amendment) Act 1998

Bill           : 2/1998

First Reading  : 14 January 1998

Second and Third Readings : 27 February 1998

Commencement   : 1 April 1998

22. 1998 Revised Edition — Films Act (Chapter 107)

Operation      : 15 December 1998

23. Act 34 of 2002 — Media Development Authority of Singapore Act 2002
     (Amendments made by section 68(1) read with item (2) of the
     Second Schedule to the above Act)

Bill           : 37/2002

First Reading  : 1 October 2002

Second and Third Readings : 31 October 2002

Commencement   : 1 January 2003 (section 68(1) read
                     with item (2) of the Second Schedule)

24. Act 13 of 2009 — Films (Amendment) Act 2009

Bill           : 5/2009

First Reading  : 22 January 2009

Second and Third Readings : 23 March 2009

Commencement   : 26 May 2009
                vi

25. Act 22 of 2016 — Info-communications Media Development Authority
                             Act 2016

     (Amendments made by section 94 of the above Act)

Bill            : 21/2016

First Reading   : 11 July 2016

Second and Third Readings : 16 August 2016

Commencement    : 1 October 2016 (section 94)

26. Act 25 of 2018 — Films (Amendment) Act 2018

Bill            : 10/2018

First Reading   : 27 February 2018

Second and Third Readings : 21 March 2018

Commencement    : 29 April 2019

27. Act 30 of 2019 — Children and Young Persons (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 65 of the above Act)

Bill            : 22/2019

First Reading   : 5 August 2019

Second Reading  : 3 September 2019

Third Reading   : 4 September 2019

Commencement    : 1 July 2020 (section 65)
                             vii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
                   COMPARATIVE TABLE
                       FILMS ACT 1981

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

         2020 Ed.                      1998 Ed.

25—(3)             25—(2A)
   (4)                (3)
   (5)                (4)
   (6)                (5)
   (7)                (6)
   (8)                (7)
   (9)                (8)
   (10)               (9)

27—(3)             27—(2A)
   (4)                (3)
   (5)                (4)
   (6)                (5)

                                                 31.12.2021
