THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                  SENTOSA DEVELOPMENT
                   CORPORATION ACT 1972

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                                                                    2020 Ed.

Sentosa Development
Corporation Act 1972

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

              SENTOSA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION

3. Establishment of Sentosa Development Corporation
4. Members of Corporation
5. Meetings and proceedings of Corporation
6. Protection from personal liability
7. Staff and employees
8. Chief Executive

                                        PART 3

             FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF CORPORATION

 9. Functions of Corporation
10. Powers of Corporation
11. Power to prohibit or restrict use of motor vehicles in Sentosa
12. Directions by Minister

                                        PART 4

                            FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

13. Borrowing powers
14. Provision of working capital
15. Issue of shares, etc.
16. Power of investment
17. Bank accounts

                                                      1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Sentosa Development

2020 Ed.  Corporation Act 1972                                       2

Section
   18. Application of profits of Corporation

                                        PART 5

                                   RESORT AREA

19. Interpretation of this Part
20. Certain building works not to be carried out without permit
21. Marine facility not to be constructed or altered without permit
22. Order for cessation of building works, etc.
23. Establishment of maintenance fund for resort area
24. Contributions payable by property owners
25. Recovery of contributions from sale of immovable property

                                        PART 6

                         VESSELS AND NAVIGATION

26. Appointment of Marina Superintendent and Deputy and
         Assistant Marina Superintendents

27. General rules for navigation
28. Vessel adrift
29. Control of embankments, etc.
30. Control of navigation
31. Special directions to vessels
32. Master’s responsibility to be unaffected
33. Failure to comply with directions
34. Enforcement of directions

                                        PART 7

                                      GENERAL

35. Appointment of committees and delegation of powers
36. Advisory and technical committees
37. Contracts of Corporation
38. Composition of offences
39. Saving of prosecution under other written law
40. Regulations
41. Transfer to Corporation of property, assets and liabilities

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
   Sentosa Development

3  Corporation Act 1972                                      2020 Ed.

An Act to establish the Sentosa Development Corporation and for
  purposes connected therewith.

                         [1 September 1972]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Sentosa Development Corporation Act 1972.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Corporation;

      “Chief Executive” means the Chief Executive of the
         Corporation, and includes any individual acting in that
         capacity;

      “Corporation” means the Sentosa Development Corporation
         established under this Act;

      “Deputy Chairperson” means the Deputy Chairperson of the
         Corporation;

      “float” means any floating structure normally used as a point of
         transfer for passengers and goods and for mooring purposes;

      “land” includes land covered by water and any interest in land;

      “Marina Superintendent” means the Marina Superintendent
         appointed under section 26 and includes any Deputy or
         Assistant Marina Superintendent appointed under that
         section;

      “marine facilities” means facilities either owned by the
         Corporation or any lessee of any land in Sentosa that are
         intended primarily to be used by or for the service of vessels
         (including floats, ramps, hoists, parking areas, leased water
         areas, concessions and service facilities) located on land in
         Sentosa or in the waters and waterways of Sentosa;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
           Sentosa Development

2020 Ed.   Corporation Act 1972                                     4

“master”, in relation to a vessel, means any person having or
   taking command, charge or management of the vessel for the
   time being;

“member” means a member of the Corporation;

“mooring” includes anchoring;

“owner” —

          (a) in relation to any area of the waters of Sentosa, means
               the person who has leased the area from the
               Corporation; and

          (b) in relation to a vessel, includes the charterer of the
               vessel;

“Sentosa” means all that part of the island known as Sentosa
   which was transferred to and vested in the Corporation on
   1 September 1972 by virtue of section 41, the bridge known
   as Gateway Avenue linking Sentosa and the main island of
   Singapore and any land reclaimed from the foreshore of
   Sentosa which is transferred to or leased by the State to the
   Corporation;

“vessel” means every description of vessel however propelled or
   moved and includes any thing constructed or used to carry
   persons or goods by water and a seaplane on or in the water, a
   hovercraft and a hydrofoil vessel;

“waters of Sentosa” means all the inland waters of Sentosa that
   are —

          (a) vested in or leased to the Corporation; or

          (b) managed or controlled by the Corporation, whether
               or not the lands lying under the inland waters are
               vested in or leased to the Corporation or leased by the
               Corporation to others;

“waterways” means any area of the waters of Sentosa providing
   access from one place to another, principally a water area
   providing a regular route for waterborne traffic.

                                 [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
   Sentosa Development

5  Corporation Act 1972                                      2020 Ed.

 (2) To avoid doubt, it is declared that, for the purposes of the
definition of “Sentosa” in subsection (1), “land reclaimed from the
foreshore of Sentosa” includes land that —

   (a) is formerly an island separate from the island of Sentosa;
        and

   (b) becomes contiguous with the island of Sentosa because of
        land reclamation.

                                                                        [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

                                    PART 2

            SENTOSA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION

Establishment of Sentosa Development Corporation

 3.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, a corporation called the
Sentosa Development Corporation is established.

 (2) The Corporation consists of a Chairperson, a Deputy
Chairperson and any number of other members that the Minister
may determine.

 (3) The total number of members must not be less than 8 nor more
than 15.

 (4) The Corporation is a body corporate with perpetual succession
and a common seal, and is capable of —

       (a) acquiring, holding and disposing of movable and
            immovable property;

       (b) suing and being sued; and

       (c) doing and suffering all such acts and things as bodies
            corporate may lawfully do and suffer.

 (5) The members of the Corporation are to be appointed by the
Minister, who must also appoint the Chairperson and the Deputy
Chairperson from among its members.

 (6) The fixing of the seal of the Corporation must be authenticated
by the signature of the Chairperson or the Deputy Chairperson or of

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Sentosa Development

2020 Ed.  Corporation Act 1972                                      6

another person authorised either generally or specially by the
Corporation to act for that purpose.

Members of Corporation

 4.—(1) A member must hold and vacate his or her office in
accordance with the terms of his or her appointment.

 (2) Any member may, at any time by written notice to the Minister,
resign his or her office.

 (3) If the Minister is satisfied that a member —

       (a) has become a bankrupt or has made an arrangement with
            his or her creditors;

       (b) is incapacitated by physical or mental illness; or

       (c) is in the opinion of the Minister otherwise unable or unfit to
            discharge his or her duties,

the Minister may declare his or her office as a member to be vacant
and must notify the fact in the manner that the Minister thinks fit, and
thereupon the office becomes vacant.

 (4) If the Chairperson or the Deputy Chairperson ceases to be a
member of the Corporation, he or she ceases to be the Chairperson or
the Deputy Chairperson, as the case may be.

 (5) A member who ceases to be a member is eligible for
re-appointment.

 (6) The Corporation must pay to its members such salaries, fees or
allowances as the Minister may determine.

Meetings and proceedings of Corporation

 5.—(1) At all meetings of the Corporation, 5 members form a
quorum.

 (2) The Chairperson presides at all meetings of the Corporation at
which he or she is present.

 (3) The Deputy Chairperson presides at all meetings of the
Corporation at which the Chairperson is not present and in the
absence of both the Chairperson and the Deputy Chairperson at any

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
   Sentosa Development

7  Corporation Act 1972                                      2020 Ed.

meeting, the members present must appoint one of their number to
preside at that meeting.

 (4) Meetings of the Corporation must be held at such times and
places as the Corporation may determine.

 (5) A special meeting of the Corporation may at any time be
convened by the Chairperson or the Deputy Chairperson.

 (6) All questions arising at any meeting must be decided by a
majority of the votes of the members present and voting.

 (7) At any meeting of the Corporation, the Chairperson has a
deliberative vote and, in the case of an equality of votes, also has a
casting vote.

 (8) The validity of any proceedings of the Corporation is not
affected by any vacancy among its members or by any defect in the
appointment of any member.

 (9) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018, the Corporation may regulate its own
proceedings.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Protection from personal liability

 6.—(1) No matter or thing done and no contract of any kind entered
into by the Corporation and no matter or thing done by any member or
employee of the Corporation or any other person acting under the
direction of the Corporation shall, if the matter or thing was done or
the contract was entered into bona fide for the purpose of executing
the provisions of this Act, subject the member or employee or any
other person acting under the direction of the Corporation personally
to any action, liability, claim or demand in respect thereof.

 (2) Any expense incurred by the Corporation or any member,
employee or other person acting under the direction of the
Corporation must be borne by and repaid out of the funds of the
Corporation.

                                                                              [6A

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                     Sentosa Development

2020 Ed.             Corporation Act 1972                           8

Staff and employees

 7. The Corporation may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint and employ, on such terms and conditions as it may
determine, any other officers, employees, consultants and agents as
may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Chief Executive

 8.—(1) There must be a Chief Executive of the Corporation, whose
appointment, removal, discipline and promotion must be in
accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Corporation may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint an individual to act temporarily as the Chief
Executive during any period, or during all periods, when the Chief
Executive —

       (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

                                    PART 3

         FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF CORPORATION

Functions of Corporation

 9. The functions of the Corporation are the following:

       (a) to control, manage and administer Sentosa and, with the
            approval of the Minister, any other island or land elsewhere
            in or outside Singapore whether or not the island or land is
            owned by or leased to the Corporation;

       (b) to promote and encourage the development of services,
            facilities and amenities in Sentosa and, with the approval
            of the Minister, elsewhere in or outside Singapore for
            tourists and the public;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
   Sentosa Development

9  Corporation Act 1972                                      2020 Ed.

   (c) to develop, manage and control scenic attractions,
       educational, entertainment, leisure, recreational, tour and
       sports services, facilities and amenities in Sentosa and,
       with the approval of the Minister, elsewhere in or outside
       Singapore and to encourage their full and proper use by
       tourists and the public;

   (d) to develop and manage part of Sentosa for residential,
        commercial or recreational purposes and, with the
        approval of the Minister, any land elsewhere in
        Singapore for similar purposes;

   (e) to provide facilities for persons living and working in
       Sentosa and to enhance the operations of businesses
       operating in Sentosa;

   (f) to prepare and implement or to give assistance to schemes
       or projects which will provide or improve services,
       facilities and amenities in Sentosa and, with the approval
       of the Minister, elsewhere in or outside Singapore for
       tourists and the public.

Powers of Corporation

 10. The Corporation has power to do anything for the purpose of
discharging its functions under this Act, or which is incidental or
conducive to the discharge of those functions and, in particular,
may —

       (a) promote or undertake publicity in any form;

       (b) provide advisory, consultancy, professional and
            information services;

       (c) promote or undertake research;

       (d) acquire by purchase, lease or sublease, or otherwise
            acquire, any land with or without any building and any
            areas of the waters of Sentosa;

       (e) grant leases, subleases and licences of any land vested in or
            leased to the Corporation and any of the areas of the waters
            of Sentosa;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Sentosa Development

2020 Ed.  Corporation Act 1972                                      10

          (f) develop any land and sell any developed land or part of the
              land;

(g) take or hold mortgages, liens and charges to secure
     payment of the purchase price, or any unpaid balance of
     the purchase price, of any property sold by the Corporation
     or any money owing to the Corporation from purchasers
     and others;

(h) erect, alter or reconstruct any building or marine facility on
     land vested in, leased to, or controlled or managed by, the
     Corporation;

          (i) form or participate in the formation of, subscribe for,
              acquire and hold and dispose of or otherwise deal with
              shares or stocks in any company, whether incorporated in
              or outside Singapore, carrying on or intending to carry on
              any activity or business in Sentosa and enter into any joint
              venture or partnership for the carrying on of any business
              or activity in Sentosa;

          (j) with the written approval of the Minister, form or
              participate in the formation of or subscribe for shares or
              stocks in any company;

          (k) with the written approval of the Minister, grant loans to, or
              guarantee the repayment of loans given to, any company in
              which the Corporation or any of its subsidiary companies
              holds any shares;

          (l) establish, maintain and operate launches, boats, services
              for the transport of passengers and goods, golf courses,
              services, facilities, equipment and apparatus as the
              Corporation thinks necessary for the performance of its
              functions;

(m) subject to any regulations made by the Minister, impose
     such charges or fees as the Corporation may determine for
     admission into Sentosa and for the use, improvement or
     maintenance of any accommodation, services, works,
     marine facilities, recreation grounds, equipment,
     attractions, amenities or other facilities provided,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Sentosa Development

11  Corporation Act 1972                                      2020 Ed.

    maintained, controlled, administered or operated by the
    Corporation;

    (n) enter into any contract or agreement for the carrying out of
         the purposes of this Act; and

    (o) take any measures that are necessary for the prevention of
         pollution of the waters and waterways of Sentosa.

Power to prohibit or restrict use of motor vehicles in Sentosa

 11.—(1) The Corporation may prohibit or restrict the use of
vehicles or of any class or description of vehicles on any road in
Sentosa and may for that purpose grant permits for vehicles entering
Sentosa and levy charges for the issue of those permits.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Corporation may —

       (a) impose different charges for different classes of vehicles
            entering Sentosa and for vehicles which are driven by
            different categories of visitors to Sentosa;

       (b) prohibit any class of vehicles, or vehicles driven by any
            category of visitors, from entering Sentosa; and

       (c) restrict the movement of vehicles during certain hours of
            the day or on certain days of the week.
                                                                             [10A

Directions by Minister

 12. The Minister may give to the Corporation any direction under
section 5 of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                             [10B

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

                                    PART 4

                        FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Borrowing powers

 13. The Corporation may, with the consent of the Minister and
subject to any terms that the Minister thinks fit, borrow money and
issue bonds, debentures or mortgage or charge any of its property for

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Sentosa Development

2020 Ed.  Corporation Act 1972                                      12

the purpose of meeting its obligations or discharging its functions
under this Act.

                                                                               [11

Provision of working capital

 14. For the purpose of enabling the Corporation to carry out its
functions and to defray expenditure properly chargeable to capital
account, including defraying initial expenses, and for the provision of
working capital, the Minister may authorise payment to the
Corporation of such sums as the Minister may determine.

                                                                               [12

Issue of shares, etc.

 15. As a consequence of the vesting of —

       (a) any property, rights or liabilities of the Government in the
            Corporation under this Act; or

       (b) any capital injection or other investment by the
            Government in the Corporation in accordance with any
            written law,

the Corporation must issue such shares or other securities to the
Minister for Finance as that Minister may direct.

                                                                             [12A

                                                                                                             [5/2002]

Power of investment

 16. The Corporation may invest its moneys in accordance with the
standard investment power of statutory bodies as defined in
section 33A of the Interpretation Act 1965.

                                                                               [13

                                                                                                           [45/2004]

Bank accounts

 17.—(1) The Corporation may open at any bank or banks, or at any
branch or agency of such banks, such accounts as it considers
necessary or desirable for the exercise of its functions and powers.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Sentosa Development

13  Corporation Act 1972                                      2020 Ed.

 (2) Every account under this section must be operated upon by
cheque signed by such person authorised to do so by the Corporation.

                                                                               [14

Application of profits of Corporation

 18. The Minister may, after consultation with the Corporation, give
directions to the Corporation as to the manner in which its profits are
to be applied.

                                    PART 5

                               RESORT AREA

Interpretation of this Part

 19.—(1) In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “immovable property” means any land, premises, building or
         tenement;

      “maintenance fund” means the maintenance fund established
         under section 23;

      “owner”, in relation to any immovable property, means the
         person for the time being receiving the rent for the
         immovable property, whether on the person’s own account
         or as agent or trustee for any other person or as receiver, or
         who would receive the rent if it were let to a tenant, and
         includes the person whose name is or will be entered in the
         Valuation List maintained by the Comptroller of Property Tax
         under the Property Tax Act 1960 as the owner of the
         immovable property;

      “resort area” means all that part of Sentosa which is designated
         by the Corporation, from time to time by notice in the
         Gazette, as the resort area for the purposes of this Part.

 (2) For the purposes of this Part —

       (a) each part of a building divided laterally or horizontally into
            parts in such a manner that the owner, either solely or
            jointly with other owners, of one part is not also the owner,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Sentosa Development

2020 Ed.  Corporation Act 1972                                      14

          either solely or jointly with the other owners respectively
          of any other part, is deemed to be a building;

(b) each part of a partially completed building, divided
     laterally or horizontally into parts, is deemed to be a
     building.
                                                                     [18A

Certain building works not to be carried out without permit

 20.—(1) A person must not commence or carry out, or permit or
authorise the commencement or carrying out of, any building works
affecting or changing the faҫade or external appearance of any
building in the resort area unless there is in force a permit granted by
the Corporation for carrying out the building works.

 (2) The Corporation may refuse to grant any such permit.

 (3) In granting any permit under this section, the Corporation may
impose any conditions that it thinks fit.

 (4) Where any person fails to comply with any condition imposed
by the Corporation, the Corporation may cancel the permit in relation
to which the condition that the person failed to comply with was
imposed.

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $100 for every day during which the offence continues
after conviction.

                                                                             [18B

Marine facility not to be constructed or altered without permit

 21.—(1) A person must not construct or alter, or permit or authorise
the construction or alteration of, any marine facility in the resort area
unless there is in force a permit granted by the Corporation for the
construction or alteration of the marine facility.

 (2) The Corporation may refuse to grant any such permit.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Sentosa Development

15  Corporation Act 1972                                      2020 Ed.

 (3) In granting any permit under this section, the Corporation may
impose any conditions that it thinks fit.

 (4) Where any person fails to comply with any condition imposed
by the Corporation, the Corporation may cancel the permit in relation
to which the condition that the person failed to comply with was
imposed.

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $100 for every day during which the offence continues
after conviction.

                                                                             [18C

Order for cessation of building works, etc.

 22.—(1) Where in the opinion of the Corporation any building
works are or have been carried out, or any marine facility has been
constructed or altered, in contravention of the provisions of this Part
or any regulations made under this Act, the Corporation may by order
in writing require —

       (a) the cessation of the building works until the order is
            withdrawn;

       (b) the demolition of the marine facility; or

       (c) such work or alteration to the building or marine facility to
            be carried out as may be necessary to cause the same to
            comply with the provisions of this Part or otherwise to put
            an end to the contravention.

 (2) In every case, the order must specify all or any of the following:

       (a) the manner in which the demolition, work or alteration
            specified in the order is to be carried out;

       (b) the time within which the demolition, work or alteration
            must commence;

       (c) the time within which the demolition, work or alteration
            must be completed;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Sentosa Development

2020 Ed.  Corporation Act 1972                                      16

(d) that the demolition, work or alteration must be carried out
     with due diligence to the satisfaction of the Corporation.

(3) An order made under subsection (1) must be served —

(a) where a building or marine facility has been erected, on the
     owner or occupier of the building or marine facility; or

(b) where building works are being carried out, on the person
     for whom the works are carried out or the builder carrying
     out the building works.

 (4) If an order made under subsection (1) is not complied with, the
Corporation may —

(a) demolish, remove or alter, or cause to be demolished,
     removed or altered, such building or marine facility or take
     such other steps as appear to the Corporation to be
     necessary; and

(b) recover all expenses reasonably incurred by the
     Corporation in the exercise of its powers under this
     section from the person in default.

 (5) Without affecting the right of the Corporation to exercise its
powers under subsection (4), if any person on whom an order made
under subsection (1) is served fails to comply with the order, that
person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing
offence, to a further fine not exceeding $100 for every day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

 (6) The Corporation may seize any materials resulting from the
carrying out of any work under subsection (4).

                                                                             [18D

Establishment of maintenance fund for resort area

 23.—(1) The Corporation must establish a maintenance fund for
the purposes of managing and maintaining the resort area and of
providing and maintaining the infrastructure and other facilities and
services for the use of persons living and working in the resort area.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Sentosa Development

17  Corporation Act 1972                                      2020 Ed.

 (2) The maintenance fund must be under the direction and control
of the Corporation.

 (3) All moneys received by the Corporation by virtue of section 24
must be paid into the maintenance fund and all expenditure and other
expenses incurred by the Corporation for managing and maintaining
the resort area and for providing and maintaining the infrastructure
and other facilities and services for persons living and working in the
resort area must be charged to the maintenance fund.

 (4) All moneys in the maintenance fund that are not immediately
required may be placed on time deposits with banks or invested in
such securities as trustees may by written law be authorised to invest.

 (5) Nothing in this section is to be construed as imposing an
obligation on the Corporation to maintain any immovable property in
the resort area that is privately owned.

                                                                             [18E

Contributions payable by property owners

 24.—(1) As from 1 November 1996, the Corporation may in each
month levy a contribution at the prescribed rates in respect of all
immovable properties in the resort area and different rates may be
prescribed for different types or classes of immovable properties.

 (2) The contributions levied under subsection (1) are payable by the
owners of the immovable properties quarterly in advance, without
demand to the Corporation at such dates as may be prescribed.

 (3) The contributions levied under subsection (1) —

       (a) are payable in addition to any property tax levied under the
            Property Tax Act 1960;

       (b) become due and payable to the Corporation without any
            deduction whatsoever and may be recovered as a debt due
            to the Corporation in any court of competent jurisdiction;
            and

       (c) if not paid within 30 days when they became due and
            payable, bear interest at the prescribed rates.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Sentosa Development

2020 Ed.  Corporation Act 1972                                      18

 (4) In respect of any contributions levied under subsection (1) and
the interest thereon, the owner of the immovable property is liable,
jointly and severally with any person who was liable to pay the same
when the contributions became due and payable, to pay the charges
and interest to the Corporation.

 (5) A person who has ceased to be the owner of the immovable
property is only liable to pay —

(a) the contributions which were unpaid at the time the person
     ceased to be the owner of the immovable property; and

(b) the interest accruing on the unpaid contributions until the
     time they are paid.

 (6) Without affecting the liability of the owner of an immovable
property in respect of any contributions levied under this section,
where a mortgagee is in possession (whether by the mortgagee or any
other person) of the immovable property, the mortgagee is liable
jointly and severally with the owner of the immovable property for
any contributions levied on the immovable property under this
section.

                                                                             [18F

Recovery of contributions from sale of immovable property

 25.—(1) Where any contributions and interest thereon levied under
section 24 remain unpaid at the end of 90 days after the Corporation
has served on the owner of the immovable property a written demand
for the payment of the contributions, the contributions and any
interest accrued thereon constitute a charge on the immovable
property upon lodgment of an instrument of charge by the
Corporation with, and the registration of the instrument by, the
Registrar.

 (2) Upon registration of the instrument of charge by the
Registrar —

       (a) the Corporation has, subject to subsection (3), the power of
            sale and all other powers relating or incidental to that
            power as if the Corporation were a registered mortgagee;
            and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Sentosa Development

19  Corporation Act 1972                                      2020 Ed.

    (b) the contributions and interest owing to the Corporation are
         subject to all statutory charges of any public authority over
         the immovable property and to all encumbrances registered
         or notified prior to the date of lodgment of that instrument
         of charge, except that where a prior registered mortgagee
         or chargee has sold the immovable property in exercise of
         the mortgagee’s or chargee’s power of sale, the registered
         charge of the estate or interest of the immovable property
         when transferred to a purchaser by the mortgagee or
         chargee must not be overreached by the exercise of the
         power of sale by the mortgagee or chargee of a prior
         registered mortgage or charge.

 (3) The Corporation must not exercise its power of sale under
subsection (2)(a) unless —

    (a) a resolution has been passed by the Corporation to have the
         immovable property sold;

    (b) a notice of the intended sale approved by the Registrar has
         been published once in one or more daily newspapers, as
         may be determined by the Registrar;

    (c) during the period of 6 weeks after the date of the
        publication specified in paragraph (b) no payment has
        been received for the contributions due including interest
        thereon and for the cost of publication as well as any other
        necessary incidental charges; and

    (d) there is no legal action pending in court to restrain the
         Corporation from proceeding with the sale.

 (4) Where a transfer of any immovable property has been made by
the Corporation in the exercise of its power of sale conferred by this
section and the transfer is lodged with the Registrar for registration —

    (a) the Registrar must not accept the transfer for registration
         unless the following documents are lodged at the same
         time:

    (i) a certified true copy of the resolution of the
        Corporation authorising the exercise of its power
        of sale with the seal of the Corporation affixed

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Sentosa Development

2020 Ed.  Corporation Act 1972                                      20

          thereto and authenticated in accordance with
          section 3(6);

          (ii) a copy of every publication containing the notice
               mentioned in subsection (3)(b);

          (iii) a statutory declaration made by the Chief Executive
                stating that the unpaid contributions and interest
                thereon and all necessary incidental costs and
                expenses owing to the Corporation as of the date
                of the contract of sale of the immovable property
                have not been paid and that there is no legal action
                pending in court to restrain the Corporation from
                proceeding with the sale of the immovable property;
                and

(b) neither the person who purchased the immovable property
     from the Corporation nor the Registrar must inquire into
     the regularity or validity of the sale or transfer.

 (5) Where an instrument of charge has been registered against any
immovable property under this section, the owner of the immovable
property is, upon payment of the amount of contributions and interest
and any necessary incidental charges owing to the Corporation before
it has exercised its power of sale conferred by this section, entitled to
an instrument of discharge executed and acknowledged by the
Corporation as to the receipt of the payment.

 (6) Upon registration of the instrument of discharge or, in the event
of the Corporation refusing to execute a discharge, an order of court
declaring that the immovable property is to be discharged from the
charge, the immovable property is freed from the charge constituted
under this section.

 (7) For the purpose of the registration of a charge, discharge or
transfer under this section, the Registrar may dispense with the
production of the relevant duplicate certificate of title.

 (8) Despite section 74 of the Land Titles Act 1993 and section 16 of
the Registration of Deeds Act 1988, where further contributions are
due to be paid to the Corporation after the instrument of charge has
been registered under this section, the contributions due, including

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                        Sentosa Development

21  Corporation Act 1972                                      2020 Ed.

interest thereon, rank in priority to any other claims as if the
contributions and interest were owing to the Corporation at the date of
the registration of the charge.

 (9) A charge under subsection (2) continues in force until all
contributions including interest thereon secured by the charge have
been paid.

 (10) This section does not affect any rights and powers of the
Corporation to recover the contributions and interest owing to the
Corporation, including any legal costs and incidental charges
necessarily incurred for the recovery of those contributions, in
respect of any immovable property as a debt from the owner of, or the
owner’s successor in title to, the property.

(11) In this section —

    “public authority” means the Government, the Collector of Land
       Revenue, the Comptroller of Property Tax and any other
       person, corporation or body, authorised or empowered by any
       written law to attach, sell or acquire land compulsorily;

    “Registrar” means the Registrar of Titles appointed under the
       Land Titles Act 1993.

                                                              [18G

                                    PART 6

                     VESSELS AND NAVIGATION

Appointment of Marina Superintendent and Deputy and
Assistant Marina Superintendents

 26.—(1) The Corporation may appoint a Marina Superintendent
and any number of Deputy and Assistant Marina Superintendents as
may be necessary for the purpose of administering and carrying out
the provisions of this Part.

 (2) Whenever, by the provisions of this Part, a power is granted to
or a duty imposed upon the Corporation, the power may be exercised

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Sentosa Development

2020 Ed.  Corporation Act 1972                                      22

or duty performed by the Marina Superintendent or a Deputy or an
Assistant Marina Superintendent.

                                                                             [18H

General rules for navigation

 27. A master who navigates a vessel in the waters or waterways of
Sentosa —

       (a) without due care and attention; or

       (b) in a manner liable to injure or endanger persons, other
            vessels, the marine facilities in Sentosa or any structure or
            installation in Sentosa,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000.

                                                                              [18I

Vessel adrift

 28.—(1) The owner or master of a vessel adrift in the waters and
waterways of Sentosa shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

 (2) It is a defence for the owner or master of a vessel charged with
an offence under subsection (1) to prove that the vessel did not
become adrift as the result of any neglect or default on the part of the
owner or master.

                                                                              [18J

Control of embankments, etc.

 29. The Corporation is vested with authority over and control of all
embankments, revetments, floats, wharves, docks and marine
facilities in the waters and waterways of Sentosa whether or not
they are owned, leased, controlled, constructed or maintained by the
Corporation.

                                                                             [18K

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                       Sentosa Development

23                     Corporation Act 1972                   2020 Ed.

Control of navigation

 30.—(1) The Corporation is vested with authority over, and control
of navigation and the use of, vessels in the waters and waterways of
Sentosa and may give general directions for the purpose of promoting
or securing conditions conducive to the ease, convenience or safety of
navigation in the waters and waterways of Sentosa and, in particular,
for any of the following purposes:

    (a) for designating waterways in Sentosa which vessels are to
         use or refrain from using for movement or mooring;

    (b) for securing that vessels move only at certain times or
         during certain periods;

    (c) for prohibiting —

    (i) entry into or movement in the waters and waterways
        of Sentosa by vessels at times of poor visibility due
        to the weather or other matters; and

    (ii) entry into the waters and waterways of Sentosa by a
         vessel which for any reason would be, or be likely to
         become, a danger to other vessels in the waterways;

    (d) for the movement, berthing or mooring of a vessel;

    (e) for the removal of any vessel from the waters and
        waterways of Sentosa if —

    (i) it is on fire;

    (ii) it is in a condition where it is liable to be immobilised
         or waterlogged, or to sink; or

    (iii) it is making an unlawful or improper use of the
          waters and waterways of Sentosa;

    (f) requiring the master of a vessel to give to the Marina
        Superintendent information relating to the vessel
        reasonably required by the Marina Superintendent in
        order to effect the objects of this subsection.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Sentosa Development

2020 Ed.  Corporation Act 1972                                       24

(2) A direction given under subsection (1) may apply —

(a) to all vessels or to a class of vessels designated, or the
     designation of which is provided for, in the direction;

(b) to all or some of the waters and waterways of Sentosa or to
     the parts of the waters and waterways designated in the
     direction; and

          (c) at all times or at times designated in the direction.

 (3) The Corporation may revoke or amend any direction given
under this section.

 (4) Directions given by the Corporation under this section must, as
soon as practicable after they have been made, be published in the
Gazette.

                                                                             [18L

Special directions to vessels

 31. The Marina Superintendent may at any time give direction to a
vessel anywhere in the waters or waterways of Sentosa —

       (a) requiring the vessel to comply with the requirement made
            in or under a general direction;

       (b) regulating or requiring the movement, mooring or
            unmooring of a vessel; and

       (c) regulating the manner in which a vessel takes in or
            discharges fuel, water or ship’s stores.
                                                                            [18M

Master’s responsibility to be unaffected

 32. The giving of a general or special direction does not diminish or
in any other way affect the responsibility of the master of a vessel to
which the direction is given in relation to the vessel, persons on board
the vessel or any other person or property.

                                                                             [18N

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Sentosa Development

25  Corporation Act 1972                                      2020 Ed.

Failure to comply with directions

 33.—(1) The master of a vessel who fails to comply with a general
or special direction shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

 (2) It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under
subsection (1) to prove that he or she had reasonable ground for
supposing that compliance with the direction in question would be
likely to imperil the vessel or that in the circumstances compliance
was impracticable.

                                                                             [18O

Enforcement of directions

 34.—(1) Without affecting any other remedy available to the
Corporation, if a direction is not complied with within a reasonable
time, the Marina Superintendent may, where applicable, put persons
aboard the vessel to carry out the direction or may otherwise cause the
vessel to be handled in accordance with the direction.

 (2) If there is no one on board a vessel to attend to a direction, the
Marina Superintendent may proceed as if the direction had been
given and not complied with.

 (3) Expenses incurred by the Corporation in the exercise of the
powers conferred by subsection (1) are recoverable by the
Corporation as if they were a charge of the Corporation in respect
of the vessel.

                                                                             [18P

                                    PART 7

                                  GENERAL

Appointment of committees and delegation of powers

 35.—(1) The Corporation may appoint from among its own
members or other persons who are not members of the Corporation
any number of committees as it thinks fit for purposes which, in the
opinion of the Corporation, would be better regulated and managed
by means of those committees.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Sentosa Development

2020 Ed.  Corporation Act 1972                                      26

 (2) The Corporation may, subject to any conditions or restrictions
that it thinks fit, delegate to any such committee any of the powers,
functions and duties of the Corporation, except the power to borrow
money, and any power, function or duty so delegated may be
exercised or performed by the committee in the name and on behalf of
the Corporation.

 (3) The Corporation may, subject to any conditions or restrictions
that it thinks fit, delegate to any member, officer or employee any of
the powers, functions and duties of the Corporation, except the power
to borrow money, and any power, function or duty so delegated may
be exercised or performed by the member, officer or employee in the
name and on behalf of the Corporation.

                                                                               [19

Advisory and technical committees

 36.—(1) The Corporation may appoint any advisory, professional
or technical committees that it thinks fit to advise the Corporation on
such matters within the scope of its functions as are referred to those
committees by the Corporation.

 (2) Any person may be appointed to be a member of any such
committee even though the person is not a member, officer or
employee of the Corporation.

                                                                               [20

Contracts of Corporation

 37.—(1) Any contract, which if made between private persons
would be required to be in writing under seal, must if made by the
Corporation be in writing under the seal of the Corporation.

 (2) Any contract, which if made between private persons would be
required to be in writing signed by the parties to be charged therewith,
must if made by the Corporation be either —

       (a) in writing under the seal of the Corporation; or

       (b) in writing signed by the Chief Executive on behalf of and
            by direction of the Corporation or signed by any other
            person on behalf of and pursuant to the authority of the
            Corporation.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Sentosa Development

27  Corporation Act 1972                                      2020 Ed.

 (3) Any contract, which if made between private persons would be
valid although made orally, may be similarly made on behalf of the
Corporation by the Chief Executive acting by direction of the
Corporation or by any other person pursuant to the authority of the
Corporation, but no oral contract may be made involving payment by
the Corporation of a sum exceeding $500.

                                                                               [21

Composition of offences

 38.—(1) The Corporation may compound any offence under this
Act or any regulations made under this Act by collecting from a
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
not exceeding $500.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

                                                                               [22

Saving of prosecution under other written law

 39. Nothing in this Act prevents any person from being prosecuted
under any other written law for any act, omission, neglect or default
which constitutes an offence under this Act or any regulations made
under this Act, or from being liable under that other written law to any
punishment or penalty, higher or other than that provided by this Act
or any regulations made under this Act except that no person shall be
punished twice for the same offence.

                                                                               [23

Regulations

 40.—(1) The Minister may, after consultation with the Corporation,
make regulations that the Minister may consider necessary or
expedient for giving full effect to the provisions of this Act and for
the due administration thereof including, in particular, regulations for
or with respect to —

       (a) the control, administration and management of lands and
            other properties vested in, leased to, acquired by, managed
            or controlled by the Corporation;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
          Sentosa Development

2020 Ed.  Corporation Act 1972                                      28

(b) the use and enjoyment of those lands and other properties;

          (c) the prevention of trespassing on any of those lands and
              other properties and the removal of trespassers or other
              persons causing annoyance or inconvenience upon or in
              those lands and other properties;

(d) the preservation and protection of and prevention of
     damage to any animals, birds, fish or other fauna and
     trees and plants of any kind on or in any of those lands;

          (e) the prescribing and imposition of charges or entrance fees
              for persons using or entering upon those lands or other
              properties or any specified parts thereof, the prescribing of
              any deposit or security as the Corporation considers fit for
              the payment of those charges or fees and the collection and
              receipt of those charges and fees by the Corporation or by
              other persons;

          (f) the prohibition, prevention, removal and disposal of any
              obstruction or impediment in those lands and other
              property;

(g) the regulation of traffic, movement and parking of vehicles
     in Sentosa;

(h) the enforcement and regulation of the use of lights, signals
     and fires by vessels navigating in the waters and waterways
     of Sentosa;

          (i) the supervision, regulation and control of traffic,
              navigation and mooring of vessels and any other
              activities carried on within the waters and waterways of
              Sentosa;

          (j) the regulation, maintenance, use and enjoyment of all
              marine facilities;

          (k) the prohibition, prevention, removal or rectification of any
              pollution of the waters and waterways of Sentosa; and

          (l) the collection, receipt, custody, issue, expenditure, due
              accounting for, care and management of the contributions
              received under Part 5.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
    Sentosa Development

29  Corporation Act 1972                                      2020 Ed.

 (2) Such regulations may impose a penalty not exceeding $2,000
for any breach thereof.

 (3) All fines recovered under this Act and any regulations made
under this Act and moneys received for the composition of offences
must be paid into and form part of the general funds of the
Corporation.

                                                                               [24

Transfer to Corporation of property, assets and liabilities

 41.—(1) As from 1 September 1972, all movable and immovable
property in Sentosa and every right and interest therein that
immediately before that date was vested in or held on behalf of the
Government are transferred to and vest in the Corporation without
further assurance, subject to any terms and conditions that the
Minister may determine.

 (2) All contracts, agreements and undertakings made by the
Government or a statutory body for the purpose of the
development of Sentosa and existing immediately before
1 September 1972 have effect, unless the Minister otherwise by
order provides, as contracts, agreements and undertakings by and
with the Corporation and may be enforced by and against the
Corporation accordingly.

 (3) Any proceeding or cause of action pending immediately before
1 September 1972 by or against the Government or a statutory body
in respect of any property, contract, agreement or undertaking
transferred to the Corporation under this section may be continued
and enforced by or against the Corporation as it might have been by or
against the Government or the statutory body had this Act not been
enacted.

                                                                               [25

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                 LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

                SENTOSA DEVELOPMENT
                CORPORATION ACT 1972

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 22 of 1972 — Sentosa Development Corporation Act, 1972

Bill                  : 12/1972

First Reading         : 7 March 1972

Second Reading        : 23 March 1972

Notice of Amendments  : 23 March 1972

Third Reading         : 23 March 1972

Commencement          : 1 September 1972

2. Act 35 of 1973 — Statutes of the Republic of Singapore (Miscellaneous
                           Amendments) (No. 4) Act, 1973

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 35/1973

First Reading         : 11 July 1973

Second and Third Readings : 26 July 1973

Commencement          : 1 September 1973 (section 2 read with
                            the Schedule)

3. 1985 Revised Edition — Sentosa Development Corporation Act
                                    (Chapter 291)

Operation             : 30 March 1987

4. Act 34 of 1996 — Sentosa Development Corporation (Amendment) Act
                           1996

Bill                  : 22/1996

First Reading         : 12 July 1996

Second Reading        : 1 October 1996

Notice of Amendments  : 1 October 1996

Third Reading         : 1 October 1996

Commencement          : 1 November 1996

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                      ii

5. 1998 Revised Edition — Sentosa Development Corporation Act
                                    (Chapter 291)

Operation             : 30 May 1998

6. Act 5 of 2002 — Statutory Corporations (Capital Contribution) Act 2002
   (Amendments made by section 3 read with item (36) of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill                  : 7/2002

First Reading         : 3 May 2002

Second and Third Readings : 24 May 2002

Commencement          : 15 July 2002 (section 3 read with
                            item (36) of the Schedule)

7. Act 45 of 2004 — Trustees (Amendment) Act 2004
   (Amendments made by section 25(4) read with item (43) of the Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill                  : 43/2004

First Reading         : 21 September 2004

Second and Third Readings : 19 October 2004

Commencement          : 15 December 2004 (section 25(4) read
                            with item (43) of the Schedule)

8. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
   (Amendments made by section 97 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2017
First Reading         : 6 November 2017

Second Reading        : 8 January 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 8 January 2018

Third Reading         : 8 January 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (section 97)

9. 2020 Revised Edition — Sentosa DevelopmentCorporation Act 1972

Operation             : 31 December 2021

10. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 24/2022

First Reading         : 12 September 2022

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
Second and Third Readings   iii
Commencement               : 3 October 2022
                           : 1 November 2022

.                        Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
  COMPARATIVE TABLE

SENTOSA DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION ACT 1972

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    1998 Ed.
—                          6 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
6                          6A
11                         10A
12                         10B
13                         11
14                         12
15                         12A
16                         13
17                         14
—                          15 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
—                          16 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
—                          17 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
19                         18A
20                         18B
21                         18C
22                         18D
23                         18E
24                         18F
25                         18G
26                         18H
27                         18I
28                         18J
29                         18K

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
                 2020 Ed.  ii
30
31                                            1998 Ed.
32                          18L
33                          18M
34                          18N
35                          18O
—                           18P
36                          19
37
38                              (4) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
39                          20
40                          21
41                          22
                            23
                            24
                            25

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2022
