THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                 AIR NAVIGATION ACT 1966

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                                                                  2020 Ed.

         Air Navigation Act 1966

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Application of Act
     2.  Extraterritorial application of Act
     3.  Article 83 bis agreements
     4.  Exemption of state aircraft, etc.
     5.  Act is binding on Government
     6.
     7.

                                        PART 2

                         REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
                          FOR SAFETY IN AVIATION

                                Division 1 — General

 8. Orders to give effect to international obligations and regulate air
         navigation

 9. Regulations for this Part
10. Incorporation by reference, etc.
11. Use of code, standards, etc., in proceedings
12. Meaning of “fit and proper person”
13. Appointment of safety inspectors and delegation

                    Division 2 — Aviation safety instruments

14. Requirement for aviation safety instrument
15. Grant and renewal of aviation safety instruments
16. General duties of holder of aviation safety instrument
17. Power to suspend or impose conditions on aviation safety

         instrument
18. Power to revoke or impose permanent conditions on aviation

         safety instrument
19. Provisional orders to avoid imminent danger, etc.

         1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                      2

Section   Criteria for action under section 17, 18 or 19
          Disqualification from holding aviation safety instrument
   20.    Directives affecting holder of aviation safety instrument
   21.    Emergency directives
   22.
   23.

          Division 3 — Safety inspections and enforcement powers

24. Safety inspections and monitoring
25. Investigating holder of aviation safety instrument
26. Power to detain aircraft, aeronautical products, etc.
27. Power to obtain information
28. Power of entry to premises, aircraft, etc.
29. Obligation to notify reportable safety matters
30. Exemption of aircraft and parts thereof from seizure on patent

         claims

          Division 4 — Special powers and prohibited activities

31. Special powers in case of emergency
32. Prohibited photography over protected areas
33. Permit needed for certain overflight by unmanned aircraft
34. Absolute prohibition of carriage of dangerous materials on

         unmanned aircraft
35. Discharge from unmanned aircraft

          Division 5 — Serious risks to aviation safety

36. Interference with aeronautical facilities
37. Tampering with aircraft, etc.
38. Interference with crew and unruly passengers, etc.
39. Dangerous activity involving aircraft, aeronautical product, etc.
40. Flying without satisfying safety requirements
41. Trespassing at aerodromes, etc.
42. Trespass, nuisance and responsibility for damage
43. Penalty for dangerous flying
44. Wreck and salvage

          Division 6 — Protection of safety information

45. Interpretation of this Division
46. Voluntary reporting rules
47. Limits to disclosure of aviation safety matter reported

         voluntarily
48. Limits to disclosure of protected information

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
3                         Air Navigation Act 1966           2020 Ed.

                          PART 2A

   AIR TRANSPORT UNDERTAKINGS

                          Division 1 — Repealed

Section
   49. to 53. [Repealed]

                          Division 2 — Repealed

   54. [Repealed]

                          Division 3 — Repealed

   55. to 60. [Repealed]
   61. Information as to air transport undertakings and use of customs

            aerodromes
   62. Licensing of air transport and commercial flying

                                          PART 2B

                                 AVIATION SECURITY

   63. Interpretation of this Part
   64. National Civil Aviation Security Authority
   65. National Civil Aviation Security Committee
   66. Powers of NCASA, aviation security inspectors, etc.
   67. Security directives
   68. Requirement to have security programme
   69. Aviation security regulations

                                           PART 3

                         CONTROL OF OBSTRUCTIONS IN
                            VICINITY OF AERODROMES

   70. Indication of presence of obstructions near aerodromes
   71. Savings
   72. Power to declare an area a controlled area
   73. Power to prohibit or regulate erection of structures and planting

            trees in controlled area
   74. Notice to remove or alter structure, trees and other vegetation in

            controlled area
   75. Power of entry on land
   76. Damage caused by reduction or removal of structure or valuable

            tree or plant
   77. Damage caused by entry on land under section 75

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                           4

Section   Compensation for loss of value of land
   78.    Procedure for settling claims for compensation under section 76,
   79.    77 or 78

                                       PART 3A

                         MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS

80. Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
81. Certain offences and penalty
82. Compounding of offences
83. Power to make regulations
84. Fees and charges
85. Financial penalties payable to Consolidated Fund
86. False information
87. Obstructing performance of official duties
88. General exemption
89. Delegation of Minister’s powers
90. Interception, etc., of unmanned aircraft

                                        PART 4
               RESTRICTION ON CLAIMS FOR DAMAGES

                              AND COMPENSATION

91. Restriction on claims for damages and compensation

                                        PART 5
                              SAVING PROVISIONS
92. Saving provisions

An Act to provide for the control and regulation of aviation so as to
  maintain, enhance and promote safety and security in civil aviation,
  and to provide for the implementation of Singapore’s obligations
  under the Chicago Convention and any other international
  convention, agreement, or understanding relating to safety of
  civil aviation to which the Government is a party.

                                                                [13 May 1966]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
5            Air Navigation Act 1966                        2020 Ed.

             PART 1

             PRELIMINARY

Short title

   1. This Act is the Air Navigation Act 1966.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “83 bis agreement” means an agreement entered into under
         Article 83 bis of the Chicago Convention;

      “aerodrome” means any defined area of land or water in
         Singapore used, or intended or designed to be used, either
         wholly or partly, for the landing, taking off, movement, or
         servicing of aircraft, and includes any buildings, installations,
         and equipment on or adjacent to any such area used in
         connection with the aerodrome or its administration;

      “aeronautical product” means anything that comprises or is
         intended to comprise any part of an aircraft or that is or is
         intended to be installed in or fitted or supplied to an aircraft,
         and includes fuel and other consumable items necessary for
         the operation of the aircraft;

       [Deleted by Act 36 of 2018 wef 01/01/2024]

      “aircraft” means any machine that can derive support in the
         atmosphere from the reactions of the air otherwise than by the
         reactions of the air against the surface of the earth;

      “airport” includes an aerodrome;

      “air traffic” means all aircraft in flight or operating on any
         manoeuvring area of an aerodrome;

      “air traffic control service” means a service provided for the
         purposes of —

              (a) preventing collisions between aircraft, and between
                   aircraft and obstructions on any manoeuvring area;
                   and

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  6

          (b) expediting and maintaining an orderly flow of air
               traffic;

“air traffic service” means —

          (a) any aerodrome control service;

          (b) any area control service provided for controlled
               flights in such airspace of defined dimensions within
               which an air traffic control service is provided;

          (c) any approach control service provided for arriving or
              departing controlled flights;

          (d) any flight information service provided for the
               purpose of giving advice and information intended
               for the safe and efficient conduct of flights;

          (e) any alerting service provided to notify appropriate
              organisations regarding aircraft in need of search and
              rescue from the air, and to assist such organisations as
              required; or

          (f) any other air traffic service considered by the
              Authority to be necessary or desirable for the safe
              and efficient operation of the civil aviation system;

“Authority” means the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore
   established under section 4 of the Civil Aviation Authority of
   Singapore Act 2009;

“auxiliary police officer” means a person appointed as such
   under Part 9 of the Police Force Act 2004;

“aviation-related service” means any equipment, facility, or
   service (including any air traffic service) operated in support
   of or in conjunction with the civil aviation system;

“aviation safety instrument” means any licence, permit,
   certificate, authorisation, approval or other document
   issued under or by virtue of this Act to, or in respect of,
   any person, aircraft, aerodrome, aeronautical procedure,
   aeronautical product, or aviation-related service, but does
   not include an airport licence within the meaning of the Civil

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
7  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

   Aviation Authority of Singapore Act 2009 or a permit
   mentioned in section 32(5)(b)(ii) or 33(5)(b)(ii);

   “aviation safety subsidiary legislation” means any order made
      under section 8 or any regulations made under section 9;

   “aviation security” means a combination of measures and
      human and material resources intended to safeguard civil
      aviation against acts of unlawful interference;

   “aviation security inspector” means a police officer or an
      individual who is appointed under section 17A(8) as an
      aviation security inspector, and includes the NCASA;

   “aviation security regulation” means any regulation made under
      section 69 for the purposes of Part 2B, and includes any order
      made by the Minister before 1 April 2014 in relation to
      aviation security until revoked;

   “Chicago Convention” means —

   (a) the Convention on International Civil Aviation done
        at Chicago on 7 December 1944;

   (b) the Protocols amending that Convention which
        Singapore ratifies; and

   (c) the Annexes to that Convention relating to
       international standards and recommended practices,
       being Annexes adopted in accordance with that
       Convention;

   “command and control link” means the data link between a
      remotely piloted aircraft and a remote pilot station for the
      purposes of managing the flight of the remotely piloted
      aircraft;

   “competent security officer” means any public officer
      designated as such by the Minister charged with the
      responsibility for homefront security;

   “conduct” means any act or omission;

   “Contracting State” means any country which is a party to the
      Chicago Convention;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  8

“controlled area” means any area declared to be a controlled area
   under section 72;

“controlled flight” means any flight that is provided with or
   required by or under this Act to make use of an air traffic
   control service;

“crew”, in relation to an aircraft, includes every person having
   duties or functions on board the aircraft during the flight of
   the aircraft in connection with the flying or safety of the
   aircraft;

“damage or loss” includes, in relation to a person, loss of life and
   personal injury;

“designated person” means a person designated in voluntary
   reporting rules for the purposes of the voluntary reporting
   scheme established by those rules;

“Director-General of Civil Aviation” means the Chief Executive
   of the Authority and includes any individual appointed by the
   Authority to act in the place of the Chief Executive;

“erection of a structure” includes an addition or alteration to an
   existing structure;

“foreign aviation authority” means the competent authority
   responsible for regulating civil aviation in a country or
   territory other than Singapore;

“foreign registered aircraft” means an aircraft registered in a
   country or territory other than Singapore;

“foreign state aircraft” means aircraft used in the military,
   customs or police services of a country or territory other than
   Singapore;

“goods” and “articles” include mails and animals;

“Government aerodrome” means an aerodrome under the
   control of the Government and a naval, military or air
   force aerodrome;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
9  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

   “ICAO” means the International Civil Aviation Organization
      established under the Chicago Convention, and includes any
      successor to that Organization;

   [Deleted by Act 36 of 2018 wef 01/01/2024]

   “land” includes land covered with water and any right in or over
      land;

   “maintenance”, in relation to any aircraft or aeronautical
      product, means any task required to ensure, or that could
      affect, the continuing airworthiness of an aircraft or
      aeronautical product, including any one or combination of
      overhaul, repair, inspection, replacement of an aeronautical
      product, modification or defect rectification;

   “manoeuvring area” means that part of an aerodrome to be used
      for the take‑off and landing of aircraft and for the surface
      movement of aircraft associated with take‑off and landing,
      but excludes any area set aside for loading, unloading or
      maintenance of aircraft;

   “military aircraft” means aircraft used in the military services of
      any country or territory, and includes aircraft of any part of
      the Singapore Armed Forces (including any aircraft that is
      being constructed for any part of the Singapore Armed
      Forces);

   “National Civil Aviation Security Authority” or “NCASA”
      means the National Civil Aviation Security Authority
      appointed under section 64;

   “National Civil Aviation Security Programme” or “NCASP”
      means the National Civil Aviation Security Programme
      required to be established for the purposes of Part 2B;

   “navigation installation” means any building, facility, work,
      apparatus, equipment, or place, (whether or not part of an
      aerodrome) that is intended to assist in the control of air
      traffic or as an aid to air navigation, and includes any land
      adjacent to any such building, facility, work, apparatus,
      equipment, or place, and used in connection with any such
      building, facility, work, apparatus, equipment, or place;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  10

“operate”, in relation to an aircraft, means to fly or use the
   aircraft, or to cause the aircraft to fly, be used, or be in any
   place, whether or not a person is present with the aircraft;

“operator”, for an unmanned aircraft, means a person engaged
   in, or offering to engage in, the operation of the unmanned
   aircraft, and where the unmanned aircraft is a remotely
   piloted aircraft, includes —

          (a) the person who causes the remotely piloted aircraft to
               fly; and

          (b) the remote pilot of the aircraft with duties essential to
               the operation of the remotely piloted aircraft, such as
               manipulating the flight controls as appropriate during
               flight time, if the remote pilot is not the operator;

“pilot-in-command”, in relation to an aircraft, means —

          (a) the pilot designated by the operator of the aircraft as
               being in command and charged with the safe conduct
               of a flight using that aircraft; and

          (b) if no such person under paragraph (a) is designated, a
               person who is, for the time being, in charge of the
               piloting of the aircraft without being under the
               direction of any other pilot in the aircraft;

“remotely piloted aircraft” means an unmanned aircraft that is
   operated using a remotely piloted aircraft system;

“remotely piloted aircraft system” or “RPAS”, for a remotely
   piloted aircraft, means all of the following components:

          (a) the remotely piloted aircraft;

          (b) every remote pilot station associated with the
               remotely piloted aircraft in paragraph (a)
               containing the equipment used to pilot that aircraft;

          (c) the command and control links between the remotely
              piloted aircraft in paragraph (a) and its remote pilot
              station or stations and other command;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
11  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

    (d) any other components as specified in the type design
         to fly that aircraft;

    “safety inspector” means a safety inspector appointed under
       section 13 and includes the Director‑General of Civil
       Aviation;

    “security directive” means a security directive given by the
       NCASA under section 67;

    “Singapore operator” means an operator of aircraft whose
       principal place of business or permanent residence is in
       Singapore;

    “Singapore registered aircraft” means an aircraft registered in
       Singapore;

    “state aircraft” means —

    (a) aircraft of any part of the Singapore Armed Forces
         (including any aircraft that is commanded by a
         member of that Force in the course of his or her duties
         as such a member); and

    (b) aircraft used in the military, customs or police
         services of a country or territory other than
         Singapore;

    “State of Registry” means the State on whose register the aircraft
       is entered;

    “State of the Operator” means the State in which the operator’s
       principal place of business is located or, if there is no such
       place of business, the operator’s permanent residence;

    “structure” includes any house, warehouse, office, shop, school
       and any other building whether permanent or temporary and
       whether used for the purpose of human habitation or
       otherwise, and also any wall, fence, platform, staging,
       gatepost, pillar, paling, frame, hoarding, bridge, cable, wire
       or any other artificial obstruction raised above ground level;

    “unmanned aircraft” means an aircraft that may be flown or used
       without any individual on board the aircraft to operate it;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  12

“unmanned aircraft system” means an unmanned aircraft and its
   associated elements;

“voluntary reporting rules” means rules made under section 46;

“working day” means any day except Saturday, Sunday or a
   public holiday.

                                                                                                [16/2015; 18/2018]

 (2) Any reference in this Act to any country or territory is, unless
the context otherwise requires, to be construed as including a
reference to the territorial waters (if any) adjacent to that country or
territory.

Application of Act

 3. Except as otherwise expressly provided by sections 6, 7 and 88,
this Act applies to and in relation to every person, aircraft, aerodrome,
aeronautical product, air service and aviation‑related service, in
Singapore.

                                                                              [2A

Extraterritorial application of Act

 4.—(1) Except as otherwise expressly provided by sections 6 and 7,
this Part and Part 2 also extend to —

       (a) every foreign registered aircraft specified in any 83 bis
            agreement that has the effect of transferring functions or
            duties to Singapore;

       (b) every Singapore registered aircraft outside Singapore,
            subject to any 83 bis agreement that has the effect of
            transferring functions or duties to another Contracting
            State;

       (c) every holder of an aviation safety instrument while outside
            Singapore and exercising or purporting to exercise
            privileges accorded by that instrument;

       (d) every person in, or any of the crew of, any Singapore
            registered aircraft or aircraft operated by a Singapore
            operator, wherever they may be, insofar as this Act
            prohibits, requires or regulates the doing of anything by

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
13  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

    such persons in, or by any of the crew of, Singapore
    registered aircraft or aircraft operated by a Singapore
    operator;

    (e) every person in any aircraft (not being a Singapore
        registered aircraft or an aircraft operated by a Singapore
        operator) who commits any act or omission on board the
        aircraft while in flight elsewhere than in or over Singapore,
        insofar as this Act prohibits, requires or regulates the doing
        of anything by the person in the aircraft, and the aircraft
        subsequently lands in Singapore with the person who
        committed the act or omission still on board the aircraft;
        and

        (f) every other person wherever they may be, insofar as any
            provision of this Act prohibits, requires or regulates the
            doing of anything in relation to any Singapore registered
            aircraft or aircraft operated by a Singapore operator, by
            such other persons.

                                                                                                           [32/2018]

 (2) Except where an act or omission is required in order to comply
with the laws of any foreign country, every holder of an aviation
safety instrument who, while outside Singapore and exercising or
purporting to exercise the privileges accorded by that instrument,
commits an act or omission that would constitute an offence under
this Act if it were committed in Singapore, is deemed to have
committed an offence under this Act and may be proceeded against in
Singapore as if the act or omission had occurred within Singapore.

 (3) A person outside Singapore who operates an unmanned aircraft
in a manner which, if the person were in Singapore, would be an
offence under section 32, 33, 34 or 35, shall be guilty of an offence
under section 32, 33, 34 or 35, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (4) Nothing in this section is to be interpreted as requiring a person
or aircraft to contravene or be operated in contravention of a law of a
foreign country or territory that applies to or in respect of the person
or aircraft.

                                                                              [2B

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  14

Article 83 bis agreements

 5.—(1) A provision in this Act (called the applied provision)
applies to an aircraft that is registered in a Contracting State as if the
aircraft were a Singapore registered aircraft if —

(a) an 83 bis agreement to which Singapore is a party and
     which is in force has the effect of transferring a function of
     the Contracting State as the State of Registry in respect of
     the aircraft to Singapore; and

(b) the agreement states that the applied provision relates to
     that function.

 (2) A provision in this Act (called the disapplied provision) does
not apply to a Singapore registered aircraft if —

(a) an 83 bis agreement to which Singapore is a party and
     which is in force has the effect of transferring a function of
     Singapore as the State of Registry in respect of the aircraft
     to a Contracting State; and

(b) the agreement states that the disapplied provision relates to
     that function.

 (3) Despite anything in this Act, a reference in this Act (other than
subsections (1) and (2) of this section) to or in relation to a
Contracting State in which an aircraft is registered includes a
reference to or in relation to another Contracting State to which any
function of the State of Registry in respect of that aircraft has been
transferred under an 83 bis agreement that has effect in relation to
Singapore in accordance with Article 83 bis of the Chicago
Convention.

 (4) If Singapore has entered into an 83 bis agreement or an 83 bis
agreement to which Singapore is a party has been amended, the
Authority must, as soon as practicable, publish in the Gazette, a
notice setting out all the following particulars of the agreement or
amendment:

(a) the Contracting State that is the other party to the
     agreement;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
15  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) the date of commencement of the agreement or
         amendment;

    (c) the aircraft to which the agreement or amendment relates;

    (d) the functions of the State of Registry in respect of the
         aircraft that are transferred under the agreement or
         amendment;

    (e) the provisions of this Act that are stated in the agreement or
        amendment to be related to the functions.

 (5) If an 83 bis agreement has ceased to be in force, the Authority
must, as soon as practicable, publish in the Gazette, a notice setting
out particulars of that cessation.

 (6) To avoid doubt, any reference in this section to the Act includes
a reference to any aviation safety subsidiary legislation.

                                                                              [2C

Exemption of state aircraft, etc.

 6. This Act, with the exception of Part 2A and the provisions of any
aviation safety subsidiary legislation —

       (a) does not apply to any state aircraft or navigation by state
            aircraft; and

       (b) does not limit the privileges or immunities of any foreign
            state aircraft and the officers and crew of any foreign state
            aircraft.
                                                                              [2D

Act is binding on Government

 7.—(1) Except as otherwise expressly provided by this Act, this
Act binds the Government, and applies to and in relation to aircraft
belonging to or exclusively employed in the service of the
Government, other than state aircraft, as they apply to or in
relation to other Singapore registered aircraft or aircraft which are
capable of being registered in Singapore.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  16

 (2) Nothing in this Act renders the Government liable to be
prosecuted for an offence, but this section does not prevent the
prosecution of —

(a) a member of the crew of an aircraft owned by the
     Government; or

(b) any other person employed by the Government.
                                                                       [2E

                                    PART 2

                     REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
                      FOR SAFETY IN AVIATION

                            Division 1 — General

Orders to give effect to international obligations and regulate
air navigation

 8.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, by
order in the Gazette, provide for matters necessary or convenient to
be prescribed for the control and regulation of aviation in and over
Singapore for the safety of air navigation or for public safety or both,
and for carrying out the Chicago Convention and any other
international aviation convention, agreement, or understanding to
which the Government is a party, in relation to safety of air
navigation.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (2) Without limiting the powers conferred by subsection (1) and
without affecting any of the provisions of this Act, the Authority may,
with the approval of the Minister, by order, make provision —

       (a) as to the registration of aircraft in Singapore;

       (b) for prohibiting aircraft from flying unless certificates of
            airworthiness issued or validated under the order are in
            force with respect to them and except upon compliance
            with any conditions as to maintenance or repair that may be
            specified in the order;

       (c) for the licensing, inspection and regulation of aerodromes,
            for access to aerodromes and places where aircraft have

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
17  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

    landed, for access to aircraft factories for the purpose of
    inspecting work in aircraft factories carried on in relation
    to aircraft or parts of aircraft and for prohibiting or
    regulating the use of unlicensed aerodromes;

    (d) for prohibiting persons from engaging in, or being
         employed in or (except in the maintenance at unlicensed
         aerodromes of aircraft not used for or in connection with
         commercial, industrial or other gainful purposes) in
         connection with, air navigation in any capacities that
         may be specified in the order, except in accordance with
         provisions in that behalf contained in the order, and for the
         licensing of those employed at aerodromes licensed under
         the order in the inspection or supervision of aircraft;

    (e) as to the conditions under which, and in particular the
        aerodromes to or from which, aircraft entering or leaving
        Singapore may fly, and as to the conditions under which
        aircraft may fly from one part of Singapore to another;

    (f) as to the conditions under which passengers and goods may
        be carried by air and under which aircraft may be used for
        other commercial, industrial or gainful purposes and for
        prohibiting the carriage by air of goods of any classes that
        may be specified in the order;

    (g) for minimising or preventing interference with the use or
         effectiveness of apparatus used in connection with air
         navigation, and for prohibiting or regulating the use of
         such apparatus as aforesaid and the display of signs and
         lights liable to endanger aircraft;

    (h) for regulating the conditions under which noise and
         vibration may be caused by aircraft on aerodromes;

    (i) for applying the provisions of this Act or orders made
        under this section to unmanned aircraft and their operators
        (indoors or outdoors), design, maintenance and
        manufacture with any prescribed exceptions,
        modifications and adaptations that the differences
        between the manned aircraft and unmanned aircraft
        require;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  18

          (j) generally for securing the safety, efficiency and regularity
              of air navigation and the safety of aircraft and of persons
              and property carried in aircraft, for preventing aircraft
              endangering other persons and property and, in particular,
              for the detention of aircraft for any of the purposes
              specified in this paragraph;

          (k) for requiring persons engaged in, or employed in or in
              connection with, air navigation to supply meteorological
              information for the purposes of air navigation;

          (l) for regulating the making of signals and other
              communications by or to aircraft and persons carried in
              aircraft;

(m) for regulating the use of the civil air ensign and any other
     ensign established by the Authority for purposes connected
     with air navigation;

(n) for prohibiting aircraft from flying over any areas in
     Singapore that may be specified in the order where
     necessary or expedient for the safety of air navigation or
     for public safety;

(o) for prohibiting aircraft of a specified description or origin
     or registered in a specified country or territory from
     landing in, flying over or taking off from Singapore, in
     order to discharge or facilitate the discharge of an
     obligation binding on Singapore by virtue of its being a
     member of an international organisation or a party to an
     international agreement;

(p) for applying, adapting or modifying the enactments
     relating to customs in relation to aerodromes and to
     aircraft and to persons and property carried in aircraft and
     for preventing smuggling by air, and for permitting in
     connection with air navigation, subject to any conditions
     that appear to the Authority to be requisite or expedient for
     the protection of the revenue, the importation of goods into
     Singapore without payment of duty;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
19  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

    (q) as to the manner and conditions of the issue, validation,
         renewal, extension or variation of any certificate, licence
         or other document required by the order (including the
         examinations and tests to be undergone), and as to the
         form, custody, production, cancellation, suspension,
         endorsement and surrender of any such document;

    (r) for regulating the charges that may be made for the use of
        aerodromes licensed under the order and at Government
        aerodromes and for services provided at such aerodromes;

    (s) for prescribing the fees to be paid in respect of the issue,
        validation, renewal, extension or variation of any
        certificate, licence or other document or the undergoing
        of any examination or test required by the order and in
        respect of any other matters in respect of which it appears
        to the Authority to be expedient for the purpose of the order
        to charge fees;

        (t) for a right to appeal to the Minister against any decisions
            made by the Authority under the order or under section 35
            (whose decision on appeal is final) and the procedure for
            such appeals.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (3) An order made under this section may make different provisions
with respect to different classes of aircraft, aerodromes, persons or
property and with respect to different circumstances but must, so far
as practicable, be so framed as not to discriminate in like
circumstances between aircraft registered in Singapore operated on
charter terms by one air transport undertaking and such aircraft so
operated by another such undertaking.

 (4) Where any order is made under this section regulating the
conditions under which noise and vibration may be caused by aircraft
on aerodromes, no liability shall lie in respect of nuisance by reason
only of the noise and vibration caused by aircraft on an aerodrome to
which the order applies, so long as the provisions of that order are
duly complied with.

 (5) Where any structure or valuable tree or plant is reduced in
height or removed or any expense is reasonably incurred in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  20

compliance with any order made under this section or the conditions
of any such order, the owner or occupier of the land must, unless the
structure was erected or the tree or plant was planted in contravention
of any such order or of the conditions imposed by the order, receive
compensation to the extent to which the owner or occupier has
suffered damage by reason of such reduction or removal or has
incurred such expense.

 (6) An order made under this section may, for the purpose of
securing compliance with the provisions of the order, provide for the
imposition of penalties not exceeding a fine of $100,000 or
imprisonment for a term of 5 years or both for any offence under
the order, and, in the case of any provision having effect by virtue of
subsection (2)(n), may also for that purpose provide for the taking of
such steps (including firing on aircraft) as may be specified in the
order.

 (7) An order made under this section may contain such saving and
transitional provisions and such incidental, consequential or
supplementary provisions as are necessary or expedient for the
purposes of the order.

 (8) The provisions of any order made under this section before
1 April 2014 in relation to regulation of air navigation continue in
force as if made under this section as amended by the Air Navigation
(Amendment) Act 2014, and may from time to time be amended
under this section as so amended by that Act until the provision is
revoked by regulations made under section 9 on the same subject
matter.

                                                                                [3

Regulations for this Part

 9.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations prescribing matters necessary or convenient to be
prescribed for the control and regulation of aviation in and over
Singapore for the safety of air navigation or for public safety or both,
and for carrying out the Chicago Convention and any other
international aviation convention, agreement, or understanding to
which the Government is a party, in relation to safety of civil aviation

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
21  Air Navigation Act 1966                                   2020 Ed.

or mitigating specifically the environmental effect of international
aviation emissions, including but not limited to —

    (a) the design and manufacture of aircraft and aeronautical
         products;

    (b) the registration, marking and operation of aircraft;

    (c) the airworthiness of aircraft and any part thereof;

    (d) the manner of applying for aviation safety instruments,
         including the information that may be required, and the
         conditions to be satisfied, for the issue of aviation safety
         instruments;

    (e) regulating the conditions under which noise and vibration
        may be caused by aircraft on aerodromes;

    (f) requiring persons performing specified functions in
        relation to the operation or maintenance of aircraft and
        aerodromes to be the holders of aviation safety
        instruments, and providing for the grant, issue,
        cancellation, suspension or variation of such aviation
        safety instruments;

    (g) the planning, construction, establishment, operation and
         use of aerodromes, including the licensing of aerodromes;

    (h) regulation of air navigation services;

    (i) applying the provisions of this Act or regulations made
        under this section to unmanned aircraft and their operators
        (indoors or outdoors), design, maintenance and
        manufacture with such prescribed exceptions,
        modifications and adaptations as the differences between
        the manned aircraft and unmanned aircraft require;

    (j) prohibiting aircraft from flying over any areas in Singapore
        that may be specified in the regulations where necessary or
        expedient for the safety of air navigation or for public
        safety;

    (k) the prohibition of the construction of buildings, structures
        or objects, the restriction of the dimensions of buildings,
        structures or objects, and the removal in whole or in part or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  22

          the marking or lighting of buildings, structures or objects
          (including trees or other natural obstacles) that constitute
          or may constitute obstructions, hazards or potential
          hazards to aircraft flying in the vicinity of an aerodrome,
          and any other measures that are necessary to ensure the
          safety of aircraft using an aerodrome or flying in the
          vicinity of an aerodrome;

          (l) the formal proof and authentication of instruments made or
              issued under this Act or the regulations made under this
              section;

(m) empowering an officer authorised by the Authority to give
     or issue directives or instructions to all or any person
     holding an aviation safety instrument, being directives or
     instructions with respect to matters affecting the safe
     navigation and operation, or the maintenance, of aircraft,
     and providing for the manner in which the directives and
     instructions are to be notified;

(n) providing for a right to appeal to the Minister against any
     decisions made by the Authority under the regulations or
     under section 35 (whose decision on appeal is final) and
     the procedure for such appeals;

(o) standards relating to the establishment and use of airspace;

(p) prohibiting or regulating the carriage or consignment for
     carriage on board an aircraft of dangerous goods or
     munitions of war;

(q) the reporting of reportable safety matters under section 29
     to contribute to the improvement of aviation safety by
     ensuring that relevant information on safety matters is
     reported, collected, stored, protected and disseminated;

          (r) prohibiting except in prescribed circumstances the
              disclosure or use of flight recorder information or other
              prescribed information, but without limiting disclosure or
              use for the purposes of an investigation under the Transport
              Safety Investigations Act 2018 or reporting a known or
              suspected act of unlawful interference required by that Act;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
23  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

    (s) prescribing, in relation to the owner or operator of an
        aircraft that is flying within, into or out of Singapore —

    (i) the type and amount of insurance coverage the owner
        or operator must have in respect of any liability that
        the owner or operator may incur in relation to the
        aircraft (for example, liability for any passenger,
        baggage, cargo or mail carried on the aircraft, for any
        flight delay relating to the aircraft, or for any death,
        injury or damage caused by the aircraft);

    (ii) the documents and information the owner or operator
         must give about the insurance the owner or operator
         has, and how those documents and information are to
         be given; and

             (iii) prohibitions against the aircraft flying within,
                   landing in, or taking off from Singapore if the
                   owner or operator does not have the required
                   insurance;

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

        (t) prescribing one-time or periodic fees (either by specifying
            amounts or by prescribing a method of calculation) in
            relation to services, applications or requests, or the doing
            of anything, under this Part or the regulations made under
            this section; and

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

       (u) prescribing such saving and transitional provisions and
            such incidental, consequential or supplementary
            provisions as may be necessary or expedient.

                                                                                    [16/2015; 18/2018; 34/2019]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), regulations may also provide
for or with respect to —

    (a) the appointment, authorisation approval, designation,
         classification or certification of —

    (i) aircraft and aeronautical products;

    (ii) aircraft operators;

    (iii) pilots and flight crew members;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  24

          (iv) air traffic service personnel;

          (v) aircraft maintenance personnel;

          (vi) air traffic services, search and rescue services and
               aeronautical information services;

          (vii) aerodromes, aerodrome operators and aerodrome
                rescue and firefighting services;

          (viii) navigation installations;

          (ix) aviation training organisations;

          (x) aircraft design, manufacture and maintenance
               organisations;

          (xi) aeronautical procedures;

          (xii) aeronautical meteorological services;

          (xiii) aeronautical telecommunications services;

          (xiv) any person who conducts an examination or
                 assessment for the purpose of determining the
                 competency of an applicant for or the holder of an
                 aviation safety instrument to hold or continue to hold
                 the instrument, including the ratings to be included in
                 an aviation safety instrument; or

          (xv) such other persons, aviation‑related services,
                facilities, and equipment operated in support of the
                civil aviation system, or classes of such persons,
                aviation‑related services, facilities and equipment
                operated in support of the civil aviation system, as
                may, in the interests of safety, be specified in the
                regulations;

(b) the setting of standards, specifications, restrictions, and
     licensing requirements for all or any of those persons or
     things mentioned in paragraph (a), including but not
     limited to —

          (i) the specification of the privileges, limitations, and
              ratings associated with aviation safety instruments or
              other forms of approval;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
25  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

    (ii) the setting of standards for training systems and
         techniques, including recurrent training
         requirements;

    (iii) the setting of medical standards for personnel;

    (iv) the requirement for proof of access to appropriate
         weather services;

    (v) the specification of standards of design, construction,
         manufacture, maintenance, processing, testing,
         supply, approval, and identification of aircraft and
         aeronautical products;

    (vi) the requirements for notification of insurance
         coverage for air services;

    (vii) the format of aviation safety instruments, forms, and
          applications, including the specification of
          information required on all application forms for
          aviation safety instruments;

    (viii) the provision of information to the Authority by
           applicants for or holders of aviation safety
           instruments;

    (ix) the requirements relating to the classification of
         aviation examiners and medical assessors and any
         related standards and restrictions on the exercise of
         their functions and powers;

    (x) the requirements for the purposes of determining
         suitably qualified medical examiners and
         establishing the criteria for standard medical
         assessments; and

    (xi) the requirements and criteria for determining
         medical experts acceptable to the Authority for the
         purposes of reaching an accredited medical
         conclusion;

    (c) the definitions, abbreviations, and units of measurement to
        apply within the civil aviation system; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  26

(d) the provision of body samples for drug or alcohol tests,
     including the persons or bodies authorised to take body
     samples, the persons who may be required to provide such
     a body sample, and the procedure for the handling and
     analysis of body samples taken in connection with drug or
     alcohol tests.

 (3) Any regulations may apply generally or with respect to different
classes of aircraft, aerodromes, aeronautical products, aeronautical
procedures, or aviation‑related services, or with respect to the same
class of aircraft, aerodrome, aeronautical product, aeronautical
procedure, or aviation-related service in different circumstances.

 (4) The Authority may, in making any regulations under
subsection (1), provide that any contravention of any of the
provisions of the regulations shall be an offence punishable —

(a) in the case of a first offence under the regulations, with a
     fine not exceeding $50,000 or with imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 2 years or with both; and

(b) in the case of a second or subsequent offence under the
     regulations, with a fine not exceeding $100,000 or with
     imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or with
     both.

 (5) The Authority may, in making any regulations under
subsection (1), provide for the imposition of financial penalties for
conduct that is a contravention of or failure to comply with a
provision of the regulations or a direction, instruction or condition
issued, given, made or imposed under, or in force by virtue of, the
regulations, being conduct that does not constitute an offence.

 (6) Where the regulations provide for the removal, marking or
lighting of anything referred to in subsection (1)(k), the regulations
must also provide for the payment of compensation to any person
who suffers loss or damage or incurs reasonable expense in or as a
direct result of the removal, marking or lighting or complying with
those regulations, unless that thing was erected or the tree or plant
was planted in contravention of the regulations or of the conditions
imposed by the regulations.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
27  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

 (7) Where any regulation is made under this section regulating the
conditions under which noise and vibration may be caused by aircraft
on aerodromes, no liability shall lie in respect of nuisance by reason
only of the noise and vibration caused by aircraft on an aerodrome to
which the regulation applies, so long as the provisions of that
regulation are duly complied with.

 (8) If a person is prohibited by any regulations under
subsection (1)(r) from disclosing or using any flight recorder
information or other information, then —

    (a) the person cannot be required by any court to disclose that
         information; and

       (b) any information disclosed by the person in contravention
            of that prohibition is not admissible in any civil
            proceedings or other proceedings or any criminal
            proceedings other than proceedings against the person
            for an offence under those regulations.

                                                                                                           [34/2019]

 (9) All regulations made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

 (10) To avoid doubt, nothing in this Act authorises the making of
any regulations providing that an aviation safety instrument is
required by or in respect of the provision of airport services and
facilities or the privilege to operate an airport within the meaning of
the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore Act 2009.

                                                                              [3A

Incorporation by reference, etc.

 10.—(1) Any aviation safety subsidiary legislation may make
provision for or in relation to a matter by applying, adopting or
incorporating by reference, with or without modification, any matter
contained in any code, standard, rule, requirement, specification or
other document, as in force at a particular time or from time to time,
which relates to any matter with which the aviation safety subsidiary
legislation deal, even if the code, standard, rule, requirement,
specification or other document does not yet exist when the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  28

aviation safety subsidiary legislation is made, including but not
limited to —

(a) any code, standard, rule, requirement, specification or
     other document —

          (i) prescribed under law by any other Contracting State
              of the ICAO;

          (ii) recommended, issued or adopted by the Enterprise
               Singapore Board, or a body or an organisation inside
               or outside Singapore that has functions
               corresponding to the functions of the Enterprise
               Singapore Board in any particular aspect of civil
               aviation; or

          (iii) issued or adopted by any aviation sport or aviation
                recreation organisation approved by the Authority;

(b) any standards, requirements or recommended practices
     issued or adopted by international aviation organisations;
     or

       (c) any code, standard, rule, requirement, specification or
            other document issued or adopted by the Authority or any
            Government department or any other public authority
            constituted by any written law.

                                                                                                           [10/2018]

 (2) Material referred to in subsection (1) may be applied, adopted or
incorporated by reference in any aviation safety subsidiary
legislation —

(a) in whole or in part; or

(b) with modifications, additions, or variations specified in the
     regulation or order.

 (3) A copy of any material applied, adopted or incorporated by
reference in any aviation safety subsidiary legislation, including any
amendment to, or replacement of, the material, must be —

(a) certified as a correct copy of the material by the Minister or
     the Authority (as the case may be); and

(b) retained by the Authority.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
29  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

 (4) Any material applied, adopted or incorporated in any aviation
safety subsidiary legislation by reference under subsection (1) is to be
treated for all purposes as forming part of the regulation or order; and,
unless otherwise provided in the aviation safety subsidiary
legislation, every amendment to any material incorporated by
reference under subsection (1) that is made by the person or
organisation originating the material is, subject to subsections (5)
and (6), to be treated as being a part of that aviation safety subsidiary
legislation.

 (5) Where any material referred to in subsection (1) is applied,
adopted or incorporated by reference in any aviation safety subsidiary
legislation, the Authority must give notice in the Gazette stating —

    (a) that the material is incorporated in the aviation safety
         subsidiary legislation and the date on which the relevant
         provision in the aviation safety subsidiary legislation was
         made;

    (b) that the material is available for inspection during working
         hours, free of charge;

    (c) the place where the material can be inspected;

    (d) that copies of the material can be purchased;

    (e) the place where the material can be purchased; and

    (f) if copies of the material are available in other ways, the
        details of where or how the material can be accessed or
        obtained.

 (6) The Authority must cause a copy of every code, standard,
requirement, rule or specification incorporated by reference under
subsection (1) (other than a code, standard, rule, requirement,
specification or other document recommended, issued or adopted
by the Enterprise Singapore Board) to be made available for
inspection by members of the public without charge at the office of
the Director‑General of Civil Aviation during normal office hours.

                                                                                                           [10/2018]

 (7) In this section, “modification” includes omissions, additions
and substitutions.

                                                                              [3B

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  30

Use of code, standards, etc., in proceedings

 11.—(1) This section applies to and in relation to any code,
standard, rule, requirement, specification or other document issued
by the Authority for the purpose of providing practical guidance or
certainty in respect of any one or more of the requirements of this Part
or any duty or other requirement prescribed in any aviation safety
subsidiary legislation.

(2) Subsection (4) has effect where —

(a) a person is alleged to have committed an offence under this
     Part or any aviation safety subsidiary legislation —

          (i) by reason of a contravention of any provision of this
              Part or of any aviation safety subsidiary legislation;
              or

          (ii) by reason of a failure to discharge or perform a duty
               or other requirement imposed by this Part or any
               aviation safety subsidiary legislation; and

(b) the matter to which the alleged contravention or failure
     relates is one to which, in the opinion of the court in the
     criminal proceedings, a code, standard, rule, requirement,
     specification or other document mentioned in
     subsection (1) relates.

(3) Subsection (4) has effect where —

(a) a holder of an aviation safety instrument is alleged to have
     not satisfied any requirement of this Part or any aviation
     safety subsidiary legislation applicable to holders of that
     aviation safety instrument —

          (i) by reason of a contravention of any provision of this
              Part or of any aviation safety subsidiary legislation;
              or

          (ii) by reason of a failure to discharge or perform a duty
               or other requirement imposed by this Part or any
               aviation safety subsidiary legislation; and

(b) the matter to which the alleged contravention or failure
     relates is one to which, in the opinion of the Authority or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
31  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

    Minister in any administrative proceedings involving the
    exercise of any power under section 17, 18, 19, 22, 24, 25,
    26 or 28, a code, standard, rule, requirement, specification
    or other document mentioned in subsection (1) relates.

 (4) In criminal proceedings mentioned in subsection (2) or
administrative proceedings mentioned in subsection (3) —

    (a) compliance with a provision of such a code, standard, rule,
         requirement, specification or other document found by the
         court, Authority or Minister (as the case may be), to be
         relevant to a matter to which a contravention or failure
         alleged in the proceedings relates; or

    (b) a contravention of or a failure to comply with, whether by
         act or omission, any such provision so found,

may be relied on by any party to those proceedings as tending to
negative or establish any liability which is in question in those
proceedings.

                                                                              [3C

Meaning of “fit and proper person”

 12.—(1) For the purpose of determining whether or not a person is
a fit and proper person for any purpose under this Part, the Authority
must, having regard to the degree and nature of the person’s proposed
involvement in the Singapore civil aviation system, have regard to,
and give such weight as the Authority considers appropriate to, all of
the following matters:

       (a) the person’s compliance history with aviation safety
            regulatory requirements;

       (b) the person’s relevant knowledge, competency and
            experience;

       (c) any history of physical or mental health or serious
            behavioural problems;

       (d) any conviction for any offence, whether or not the
            conviction was in a Singapore court and whether or not
            the offence was committed before 1 April 2014;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  32

          (e) any evidence of the exercise of any power under
              section 17, 18, 19, 22, 24, 25, 26 or 28 in relation to the
              person for committing an aviation safety offence or for
              contravening any provision of this Act or any aviation
              safety subsidiary legislation;

          (f) whether the person is or was disqualified under section 21
              from holding the same aviation safety instrument or such
              other related aviation safety instrument as the Authority
              must specify by order under that section.

 (2) Subsection (1) applies to a body corporate with the following
modifications:

(a) paragraphs (a), (b), (d) and (e) of that subsection must be
     read as if they refer to the body corporate and its officers;
     and

(b) paragraphs (c) and (f) of that subsection must be read as if
     they refer only to the officers of the body corporate.

(3) To avoid doubt —

(a) the Authority is not confined to consideration of the
     matters specified in subsection (1) and may take into
     account any other matters and evidence that may be
     relevant; but

(b) the Authority must not take into account any reportable
     safety matter notified under section 29 by a person for the
     purpose of determining whether or not that person is a fit
     and proper person.

 (4) The Authority may seek and receive any information (including
medical reports) that the Authority thinks fit or consider information
obtained from any source.

 (5) If the Authority proposes to take into account any information
that is or may be prejudicial to a person, the Authority must, subject to
subsection (6), as soon as is practicable, disclose that information to
that person and give that person a reasonable opportunity to refute or
comment on it.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
33  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

 (6) Nothing in subsection (5) requires the Authority to disclose any
information, the disclosure of which would endanger the safety of
any person.

(7) In this section —

    “aviation safety offence” means an offence under this Act or any
       aviation safety subsidiary legislation;

    “aviation safety regulatory requirement” does not include any
       security directive or other requirement imposed by or under
       Part 2B.

                                                             [3D

Appointment of safety inspectors and delegation

 13.—(1) The Authority may in writing appoint as safety inspectors
any of the following persons:

       (a) any employee of the Authority with suitable qualifications
            and experience to properly exercise the powers of a safety
            inspector;

       (b) any individual who is not an employee of the Authority and
            has suitable qualifications and experience to properly
            exercise the powers of a safety inspector.

 (2) The Authority must issue to each safety inspector an
identification card, which must be carried at all times by the safety
inspector when exercising powers under any provision in this Part or
any aviation safety subsidiary legislation.

 (3) Subject to subsection (5), the Authority may delegate the
exercise of all or any of the powers conferred or duties imposed upon
it by any provision in this Part or any aviation safety subsidiary
legislation —

       (a) to the Director-General of Civil Aviation; or

       (b) to such of its employees, and such other individuals who
            are not its employees, as it appoints under this section to be
            a safety inspector in relation to that provision,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  34

and any reference in this Act or such aviation safety subsidiary
legislation to the Authority includes a reference to the
Director‑General of Civil Aviation or such a safety inspector.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), the Director‑General of Civil Aviation
may, in writing, delegate to any employee of the Authority (whether
or not appointed by the Authority to be a safety inspector) the
exercise of all or any of the powers conferred or duties imposed upon
him or her by any provision in this Act or any aviation safety
subsidiary legislation; and any reference in this Act or such aviation
safety subsidiary legislation to the Director‑General of Civil Aviation
includes a reference to that employee.

(5) Nothing in this section authorises delegating —

(a) the power of delegation conferred by this section;

(b) any power of the Authority to make aviation safety
     subsidiary legislation;

          (c) any power of the Director-General of Civil Aviation to
              make emergency directives of general application under
              section 23; or

(d) to any individual who is not an employee of the Authority
     any power under section 17, 18, 19 or 21 with respect to
     any aviation safety instrument.

 (6) Any delegation under subsection (3) or (4) may be general or in
a particular case and may be subject to such conditions or limitations
as set out in this Act or as the Authority may specify.

 (7) Every safety inspector who is not an employee of the Authority
and acting under this section is deemed to be a public servant for the
purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

                                                                              [3E

                Division 2 — Aviation safety instruments

Requirement for aviation safety instrument

 14.—(1) The Authority may in any aviation safety subsidiary
legislation provide that an aviation safety instrument is required by or
in respect of all or any of the following:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
35  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

    (a) aircraft operators;

    (b) aircraft owners;

    (c) aircraft pilots and flight crew members;

    (d) air traffic service personnel;

    (e) aircraft maintenance personnel;

    (f) air traffic services, search and rescue services and
        aeronautical information services;

    (g) aerodromes, aerodrome operators and aerodrome rescue
         and firefighting services;

    (h) navigation installations;

    (i) aviation training organisations;

    (j) aircraft design, manufacture, and maintenance
        organisations;

    (k) aeronautical procedures;

    (l) aeronautical meteorological services;

    (m) aeronautical telecommunications services;

    (n) such other persons, aircraft, aeronautical products,
         aviation‑related services, facilities, and equipment
         operated in support of the civil aviation system, or
         classes of such persons, aircraft, aeronautical products,
         aviation‑related services, facilities, and equipment
         operated in support of the civil aviation system, as may,
         in the interests of safety or security, be specified in the
         aviation safety subsidiary legislation;

       (o) any person who is an aviation examiner or medical
            assessor.

                                                                                                           [10/2014]

 (2) A person must not operate, maintain or service or do any other
act in respect of any aircraft, aeronautical product or aviation‑related
service referred to in subsection (1)(a) to (o) for which an aviation
safety instrument is required under any aviation safety subsidiary
legislation unless —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  36

(a) the person holds an aviation safety instrument that is in
     force and authorises the person to do that act; or

(b) the person is authorised by or under the aviation safety
     subsidiary legislation to do that act without the aviation
     safety instrument.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                                                           [34/2019]

 (4) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (3) shall
be liable on conviction —

(a) to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 2 years or to both; but

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, to a fine not
            exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 5 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [34/2019]

 (5) A person is a repeat offender in relation to an offence under
subsection (3) relating to an aviation safety instrument which is
required under any aviation safety subsidiary legislation if the person
has been convicted or found guilty (whether before, on or after
21 December 2019) on at least one other earlier occasion of —

(a) an offence under subsection (3) relating to an activity or act
     in respect of any aircraft, aeronautical product or
     aviation‑related service for which the same type of
     aviation safety instrument is required under any aviation
     safety subsidiary legislation; or

       (b) an offence under an order made under section 8 relating to
            an activity or act in respect of any aircraft, aeronautical
            product or aviation‑related service for which the same type
            of aviation safety instrument is required under such an
            order.

                                                                                                           [34/2019]

 (6) Subject to any such aviation safety subsidiary legislation, an
aviation safety instrument may be issued by the Authority for such

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
37  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

specified period and subject to such conditions as the Authority
considers appropriate in each particular case.

                                                                                [4

Grant and renewal of aviation safety instruments

 15.—(1) Every application for the grant or renewal of an aviation
safety instrument must be made to the Authority in the form
prescribed by any aviation safety subsidiary legislation or, if there is
no prescribed form, in any form that the Authority requires.

 (2) After considering any application for the grant or renewal of an
aviation safety instrument, the Authority may, as soon as is
practicable, grant the application if the Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) all things in respect of which the aviation safety instrument
            is sought meet the relevant requirements prescribed by the
            applicable aviation safety subsidiary legislation;

       (b) the applicant and any person who is to have or is likely to
            have control over the exercise of the privileges under the
            aviation safety instrument —

               (i) either holds the relevant qualifications and
                   experience prescribed by the applicable aviation
                   safety subsidiary legislation or holds any foreign
                   qualifications or certifications, licences or permits
                   issued by a foreign aviation authority that are
                   acceptable to the Authority under subsection (3);

              (ii) is a fit and proper person to have such control or hold
                   the aviation safety instrument; and

             (iii) meets all other relevant requirements prescribed by
                   the applicable aviation safety subsidiary legislation;

       (c) the applicant is not disqualified under section 21 from
            holding that aviation safety instrument; and

       (d) it is not contrary to the interests of aviation safety for the
            aviation safety instrument to be granted or renewed.

 (3) For the purpose of granting or renewing an aviation safety
instrument, the Authority may, subject to any provisions in the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  38

applicable aviation safety subsidiary legislation, accept such foreign
qualifications or recognise such certifications, licences or permits
issued by a foreign aviation authority as it considers appropriate in
each case.

 (4) It is a condition of every current aviation safety instrument that
the holder of, and any person who has or is likely to have control over
the exercise of the privileges under, the aviation safety instrument
continue to satisfy the fit and proper person test specified in
subsection (2)(b)(ii).

 (5) Where the Authority refuses to grant an application for the grant
or renewal of an aviation safety instrument under this section, the
applicant may appeal against that decision to the Minister within the
time and in the manner prescribed by the applicable aviation safety
subsidiary legislation; and the Minister’s decision on appeal is final.

                                                                              [4A

General duties of holder of aviation safety instrument

 16.—(1) Unless otherwise provided by the applicable aviation
safety subsidiary legislation, a person who is required by the
applicable aviation safety subsidiary legislation for or in respect of
any matter in section 14(1)(a) to (o) to hold an appropriate aviation
safety instrument must ensure that the appropriate aviation safety
instrument and all the necessary qualifications and other documents
are held by that person before that person does anything for which
such an aviation safety instrument is required.

 (2) Where a person mentioned in subsection (1) holds an aviation
safety instrument, the person —

       (a) must comply with all the relevant aviation safety
            subsidiary legislation, and the conditions attached to the
            relevant aviation safety instrument the person holds;

       (b) must ensure that the activities or functions for which the
            aviation safety instrument has been granted are carried out
            by the person, and by all persons for whom the person is
            responsible, safely and in accordance with the relevant
            safety standards and practices prescribed by the applicable
            aviation safety subsidiary legislation; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
39  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

    (c) where the aviation safety instrument authorises the
        provision of a service within the civil aviation system —

    (i) must, if so required by the applicable aviation safety
        subsidiary legislation, establish and follow a
        management system that will ensure compliance
        with the relevant safety standards prescribed by that
        aviation safety subsidiary legislation and the
        conditions attached to the aviation safety instrument;

    (ii) must provide training and supervision to all
         employees of the person who are engaged in doing
         anything to which the aviation safety instrument
         relates, so as to maintain compliance with the
         relevant safety standards prescribed by the
         applicable aviation safety subsidiary legislation and
         the conditions attached to the aviation safety
         instrument and to promote safety; and

    (iii) must provide sufficient resources to ensure
          compliance with the relevant safety standards
          prescribed by the applicable aviation safety
          subsidiary legislation and the conditions attached
          to the aviation safety instrument.
                                                                     [4B

Power to suspend or impose conditions on aviation safety
instrument

 17.—(1) The Authority may suspend any aviation safety instrument
or impose conditions in respect of any such aviation safety instrument
if —

       (a) the Authority considers such action necessary to ensure
            compliance with this Part or the applicable aviation safety
            subsidiary legislation;

       (b) the Authority is satisfied that the holder of the aviation
            safety instrument has failed to comply with any condition
            of the aviation safety instrument, any provision of this Part
            or the applicable aviation safety subsidiary legislation;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  40

          (c) the Authority considers that the privileges or duties for
              which the aviation safety instrument has been granted are
              being carried out by the holder in a careless or incompetent
              manner; or

(d) in the case of an aviation safety instrument relating to the
     use of any aircraft, aeronautical product, or the provision of
     any service, the Authority considers that there is
     reasonable doubt as to the airworthiness of the aircraft or
     as to the quality or safety of the aeronautical product or
     service to which the aviation safety instrument relates,

and the Authority considers that suspending the aviation safety
instrument or imposing conditions in respect of the aviation safety
instrument is necessary in the interests of safety.

 (2) The suspension of any aviation safety instrument and any
conditions imposed under subsection (1) remain in force until the
Authority determines what action (if any) mentioned in
subsection (3) is to be taken; but any such suspension or conditions
expire 10 working days after the date that the suspension or
conditions are imposed unless, before the expiry of that
10‑working day period, the Authority extends the suspension or
conditions for a further specified period.

(3) The Authority may take one or more of the following actions:

(a) impose conditions in respect of any such aviation safety
     instrument for a specified period;

(b) withdraw any conditions in respect of any such aviation
     safety instrument;

          (c) suspend any aviation safety instrument in whole or part for
              a specified period;

(d) revoke or partially revoke any aviation safety instrument
     under section 18;

          (e) impose permanent conditions under section 18.

 (4) Any person whose aviation safety instrument has been
suspended or made subject to conditions under subsection (3) must

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
41  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

forthwith produce that document to the Authority for appropriate
endorsement.

 (5) The holder of an aviation safety instrument who is aggrieved by
any decision of the Authority under this section may appeal to the
Minister in the manner prescribed by the applicable aviation safety
subsidiary legislation; and the Minister’s decision on appeal is final.

                                                                              [4C

Power to revoke or impose permanent conditions on aviation
safety instrument

 18.—(1) The Authority may, if it considers it necessary in the
interests of aviation safety and after an inspection, monitoring, or
investigation carried out under this Part, revoke an aviation safety
instrument or impose permanent conditions on an aviation safety
instrument.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may revoke or
impose permanent conditions on an aviation safety instrument if the
Authority considers that the revocation or imposition of permanent
conditions is necessary in the interests of aviation safety.

 (3) Revocation under this section may be in respect of the whole or
any part of an aviation safety instrument.

 (4) Before exercising any powers under this section, the Authority
must give notice to the holder of the aviation safety instrument
concerned —

       (a) stating that it proposes to revoke or impose permanent
            conditions on the aviation safety instrument in the manner
            as specified in the notice; and

       (b) specifying the time (being at least 28 days from the date of
            service of notice on the holder) within which written
            representations may be made to the Authority with respect
            to the proposed revocation of the aviation safety
            instrument or the permanent conditions to be imposed on
            the aviation safety instrument, as the case may be.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  42

 (5) Upon receipt of any written representation mentioned in
subsection (4)(b), the Authority must consider the written
representation and may —

(a) reject the written representation; or

(b) amend the proposed permanent condition in accordance
     with the written representation, or otherwise,

and, in either event, the Authority must give written notice to the
holder of the aviation safety instrument concerned of its decision.

 (6) A person whose aviation safety instrument is revoked or made
subject to permanent conditions under this section must —

(a) if the aviation safety instrument is made subject to
     permanent conditions or revoked in part, immediately
     produce the document to the Authority for appropriate
     endorsement; and

(b) if the whole aviation safety instrument is revoked,
     immediately surrender the document to the Authority.

 (7) The holder of an aviation safety instrument who is aggrieved by
any decision of the Authority under this section may appeal to the
Minister in the manner prescribed by the applicable aviation safety
subsidiary legislation; and the Minister’s decision on appeal is final.

                                                                              [4D

Provisional orders to avoid imminent danger, etc.

 19.—(1) Subject to subsection (4), where it appears to the
Authority that a holder of an aviation safety instrument is
contravening, or is likely to contravene, any condition of the
aviation safety instrument, that there are reasonable grounds to
believe there is a serious and imminent risk to air safety and that it is
appropriate or requisite, to avoid any actual or imminent occurrence
that endangers or threatens to endanger the safety of the public, that a
provisional order be made under this section, the Authority must,
instead of taking any decision under section 17 or 18, by provisional
order make any provision that appears to it requisite for securing
compliance with that condition.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
43  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

(2) A provisional order —

    (a) is to require the holder of an aviation safety instrument to
         whom it relates (according to the circumstances of the
         case) to do, or not to do, such things as are specified in the
         provisional order or are of a description so specified;

    (b) is to take effect at such time, being the earliest practicable
         time, as is determined by or under the provisional order;
         and

    (c) may be revoked at any time by the Authority.

 (3) In determining whether it is appropriate or requisite that a
provisional order be made, the Authority must have regard, in
particular, to the extent to which any person is likely to sustain loss or
damage in consequence of anything which, in contravention of the
condition of an aviation safety instrument, is likely to be done, or
omitted to be done, before a decision under section 17 or 18 may be
made.

 (4) Subject to subsections (5), (6) and (7), the Authority must, by
written notice, confirm a provisional order, with or without
modifications, if —

    (a) the Authority is satisfied that the holder of an aviation
         safety instrument to whom the order relates has
         contravened, or is likely to contravene, any condition of
         its instrument; and

    (b) the provision made by the order (with any modifications) is
         requisite for the purpose of securing compliance with that
         condition.

 (5) The Authority must not confirm a provisional order in relation
to a holder of an aviation safety instrument if it is satisfied —

    (a) that the duties imposed on the Authority under this Act or
         the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore Act 2009
         preclude the confirming of such a provisional order;

    (b) that the holder of an aviation safety instrument has agreed
         to take, and is taking, all such steps as it appears to the
         Authority for the time being to be appropriate for the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.     Air Navigation Act 1966                               44

          holder of that instrument to take for the purpose of securing
          or facilitating compliance with the condition in question;
          or

          (c) that the contraventions were, or the apprehended
              contraventions are, of a trivial nature.

 (6) Before the Authority confirms a provisional order, the Authority
must give notice to the holder of an aviation safety instrument
concerned —

(a) stating that the Authority proposes to confirm the
     provisional order and setting out its effect;

(b) setting out —

          (i) the relevant condition of the aviation safety
              instrument for the purpose of securing compliance
              with which the provisional order is to be confirmed;

          (ii) the acts or omissions which, in the Authority’s
               opinion, constitute or would constitute
               contraventions of that condition; and

          (iii) the other facts which, in the Authority’s opinion,
                justify the confirmation of the provisional order; and

          (c) specifying the period (being at least 28 days from the date
              of service of the notice) within which representations or
              objections with respect to the proposed confirmation may
              be made,

and must consider any representations or objections which are duly
made and not withdrawn.

 (7) The Authority must not confirm a provisional order with
modifications except —

(a) with the consent of the holder of an aviation safety
     instrument to whom the order relates; or

(b) after —

          (i) serving on that holder of an aviation safety
              instrument such notice of the proposal to confirm
              the provisional order with modifications and in that

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
45  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

    notice, specifying the period (being at least 28 days
    from the date of service of the notice) within which
    representations or objections with respect to the
    proposed modifications may be made; and

    (ii) considering any representations or objections which
         are duly made and not withdrawn.

 (8) In this section, “provisional order” means an order under this
section which, if not previously confirmed in accordance with
subsection (5), ceases to have effect at the end of such period (not
exceeding 3 months) as is determined by or under the order.

                                                                              [4E

Criteria for action under section 17, 18 or 19

 20.—(1) For the purpose of determining whether an aviation safety
instrument a person holds should be suspended or made subject to
conditions under section 17, or revoked or made subject to permanent
conditions under section 18, whether a provisional order should be
made under section 19 in respect of that person, or whether the person
should be disqualified under section 21, the Authority may have
regard to, and give such weight as it considers appropriate to, all of
the following matters:

       (a) the person’s compliance history with aviation safety
            regulatory requirements;

       (b) any conviction for an offence, whether or not the
            conviction was in a Singapore court and whether or not
            the offence was committed before 1 April 2014;

       (c) any evidence that the person has committed an aviation
            safety offence or has contravened any provision in this Act
            or any aviation safety subsidiary legislation.

 (2) To avoid doubt, the Authority is not confined to consideration of
the matters specified in subsection (1) and may take into account any
other matters and evidence that may be relevant.

 (3) The Authority may seek and receive any information that the
Authority thinks fit or consider information obtained from any
source.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  46

 (4) If the Authority proposes to take into account any information
that is or may be prejudicial to a person, the Authority must, subject to
subsection (5), as soon as is practicable, but in the case of the
suspension of an aviation safety instrument or the imposition of
conditions under section 17, no later than 5 working days after
suspending the aviation safety instrument or imposing conditions,
disclose that information to that person and give that person a
reasonable opportunity to refute or comment on it.

 (5) Nothing in subsection (4) requires the Authority to disclose any
information, the disclosure of which would endanger the safety of
any person or before exercising any power under section 19.

(6) In this section —

“aviation safety offence” means an offence under this Act or any
   aviation safety subsidiary legislation;

“aviation safety regulatory requirement” does not include any
   security directive or requirement imposed by or under
   Part 2B.

                                                                   [4F

Disqualification from holding aviation safety instrument

 21.—(1) Where an aviation safety instrument is wholly revoked
under section 18, the person who was the holder of that aviation
safety instrument is also disqualified, for the period that the Authority
specifies, from holding the same aviation safety instrument or such
other related aviation safety instrument, as the Authority must specify
and inform the person by order.

 (2) A person commits an offence who applies for or obtains an
aviation safety instrument while disqualified by an order of the
Authority under this section from obtaining such an instrument and
any such instrument so obtained is of no effect.

 (3) A former holder of an aviation safety instrument who is
aggrieved by any decision of the Authority under this section may
appeal to the Minister in the manner prescribed by the applicable

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
47  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

aviation safety subsidiary legislation; and the Minister’s decision on
appeal is final.

                                                                              [4G

Directives affecting holder of aviation safety instrument

 22.—(1) Subject to subsection (5), the Authority may, whether or
not any administrative proceedings are instituted under section 17, 18
or 19, give a directive to the holder of any aviation safety instrument,
according to the circumstances of the case, to do, or not to do, such
things as are specified in the directive or are of a description as
specified in the directive if —

       (a) the Authority considers such action necessary in the
            interests of promoting or protecting safety or public
            health or ensuring environmental sustainability;

       (b) the Authority is satisfied that the holder of the aviation
            safety instrument has failed to comply with any conditions
            of the aviation safety instrument;

       (c) the Authority considers that the privileges or duties for
            which the aviation safety instrument has been granted are
            being carried out by the holder in a careless or incompetent
            manner; or

       (d) in the case of an aviation safety instrument relating to the
            use of any aircraft, aeronautical product, or the provision of
            any service, or impose conditions in respect of any such
            document, the Authority considers that there is reasonable
            doubt as to the airworthiness of the aircraft or as to the
            quality or safety of the aeronautical product or service to
            which the aviation safety instrument relates,

and that holder must comply with that directive as soon as it takes
effect.

 (2) Every directive under subsection (1) takes effect when the
directive is given to the holder of an aviation safety instrument
concerned or on a later date specified in the directive.

 (3) A directive under this section in respect of the holder of an
aviation safety instrument must not be inconsistent with any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  48

provision in this Act or any aviation safety subsidiary legislation, or
the conditions of the aviation safety instrument.

 (4) The Authority may at any time revoke any directive given under
this section.

 (5) Before giving a directive to any holder of an aviation safety
instrument under subsection (1), the Authority must, unless the
Authority in respect of any particular directive considers that it is not
practicable or desirable, give notice —

(a) stating that the Authority proposes to make the directive
     and setting out its effect; and

(b) specifying the time within which representations or
     objections to the proposed directive may be made,

and must consider any representations or objections which are duly
made.

 (6) Where a holder of any aviation safety instrument has been
subject to administrative proceedings under section 17, 18 or 19
(called in this subsection the first administrative action) and a
directive is given to the holder under this section in connection with
those proceedings, and the holder of the aviation safety instrument
continues to fail to comply with the directive of the Authority under
this section, such failure constitutes a fresh ground for administrative
proceedings under section 17 or 18 for every day or part of a day that
the failure continues after the first administrative action.

                                                                              [4H

Emergency directives

 23.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the Director‑General of Civil
Aviation may from time to time and in accordance with
subsections (3), (4) and (5), make such emergency directives of
general application as may be necessary to alleviate or minimise any
risk of the death of, or a serious injury to, any person or of damage to
any property.

 (2) The Director-General of Civil Aviation must not make any
emergency directive of general application unless it is impracticable
in the circumstances of the particular case for the Authority to make

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
49  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

or amend any aviation safety subsidiary legislation to effectively
alleviate or minimise the risk concerned.

 (3) Once such an emergency directive of general application is
made, the Director‑General of Civil Aviation must cause to be
published in the Gazette the emergency directive except that where
for reasons of safety or security it is impracticable to notify the
emergency directive in the Gazette, the Director‑General of Civil
Aviation must notify any person or persons that he or she thinks
appropriate or necessary in the circumstances.

 (4) Every emergency directive of general application comes into
force immediately upon its being published in the Gazette or, where
notified by service on any person under subsection (3), immediately
upon service of the notification upon that person and in respect of that
person only.

 (5) An emergency directive of general application made under this
section may be in force for a period not exceeding 90 days unless
earlier revoked under subsection (6), and may be renewed by the
Director‑General of Civil Aviation once only for a further period not
exceeding 30 days.

 (6) The Authority may, at any time when any emergency directive
of general application made under subsection (1) is in force, revoke
the emergency directive by publishing notice of that revocation in the
Gazette.

 (7) So far as any emergency directive of general application is
inconsistent with any aviation safety subsidiary legislation, the
emergency directive prevails.

                                                                               [4I

      Division 3 — Safety inspections and enforcement powers
Safety inspections and monitoring

 24.—(1) The Authority may, by notice, require —
       (a) any holder of an aviation safety instrument; or
       (b) any person who operates, maintains or services, or does
            any other act in respect of, any aircraft or aeronautical

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  50

          product, or who provides any aviation-related service or air
          traffic service,

to undergo any inspection or monitoring that the Authority considers,
on reasonable grounds, necessary in the interests of civil aviation
safety.

 (2) For the purposes of any inspection or monitoring under
subsection (1), the Director‑General of Civil Aviation or a safety
inspector may in respect of any person described in subsection (1)(a)
or (b), by written notice, require from that person any information that
the Director‑General of Civil Aviation or safety inspector (as the case
may be) considers relevant to the inspection or monitoring.

 (3) Any person to whom a notice under subsection (1) or (2) is
given who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with the
requirements of the notice shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                               [4J

Investigating holder of aviation safety instrument

 25.—(1) Without affecting sections 24 and 26, the
Director‑General of Civil Aviation or a safety inspector may
require the holder of an aviation safety instrument to undergo an
investigation conducted by the Director‑General of Civil Aviation or
a safety inspector if the Director‑General of Civil Aviation or safety
inspector, as the case may be —

       (a) has reasonable grounds to believe that the holder has failed
            to comply with any condition of the aviation safety
            instrument, or considers that the privileges or duties for
            which the aviation safety instrument has been granted are
            being carried out by the holder in a careless or incompetent
            manner; and

       (b) believes, on reasonable grounds, that the investigation is
            necessary in the interests of civil aviation safety.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
51  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

 (2) If the Director-General of Civil Aviation or a safety inspector
requires any holder of an aviation safety instrument to undergo an
investigation under this section, he or she must —

    (a) inform the holder, in writing, of the date on which the
         investigation will begin;

    (b) conclude the investigation as soon as practicable; and

    (c) inform the holder, in writing, of the results of the
        investigation, including any recommendations arising out
        of the investigation and the grounds for those
        recommendations.
                                                                          [4K

Power to detain aircraft, aeronautical products, etc.

 26.—(1) Where the Director-General of Civil Aviation believes on
reasonable grounds that the operation or use of any aircraft or
aeronautical product or any class of aircraft or aeronautical products
may endanger persons or property and that prompt action is necessary
to prevent the danger, the Director‑General of Civil Aviation may do
all or any of the following:

       (a) prohibit or impose conditions on the operation of the
            aircraft or all aircraft of that class;

       (b) prohibit or impose conditions on the use of the aeronautical
            product or aeronautical products of that class;

       (c) detain particular aircraft or seize particular aeronautical
            products where necessary in order to prevent their
            operation or use.

 (2) Where the Director-General of Civil Aviation believes on
reasonable grounds that the operation or use of any aircraft or
aeronautical product or any class of aircraft or aeronautical products
may endanger persons or property and notifies the Authority, the
Authority may do all or any of the following:

       (a) detain the aircraft or any aircraft of that class;

       (b) seize the aeronautical product or any aeronautical products
            of that class;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  52

          (c) prohibit or impose conditions on the operation of the
              aircraft or aircraft of that class, or the use of any
              aeronautical product or any aeronautical products of that
              class.

 (3) Any detention or seizure under subsection (1) or (2) must be
maintained for only such time as is necessary in the interest of safety;
but, if any aircraft, aeronautical products, or parts thereof are required
for the purpose of evidence in any prosecution under this Act, those
aircraft, aeronautical products, or parts thereof may be retained by the
Director‑General of Civil Aviation or the Authority for any period
that the Director‑General of Civil Aviation or the Authority (as the
case may be) considers necessary for that purpose.

 (4) The Director-General of Civil Aviation or the Authority (as the
case may be) must, if requested by the owner or the person for the
time being in charge of an aircraft detained or an aeronautical product
seized under subsection (1) or (2) (as the case may be) provide in
writing to the owner or that person the reasons for the detention or
seizure.

 (5) Any person who is aggrieved by any decision of the
Director‑General of Civil Aviation or the Authority under this
section may appeal to the Minister in the manner prescribed by such
order made under such aviation safety subsidiary legislation as is
applicable; and the Minister’s decision on appeal is final.

 (6) For the purpose of subsections (1) and (2), the Director‑General
of Civil Aviation or the Authority (as the case may be) must notify
any prohibitions or conditions to any persons that the
Director‑General of Civil Aviation or the Authority considers
necessary by any means of communication, whether or not of a
permanent nature, that he or she or it considers appropriate in the
circumstances.

                                                                              [4L

Power to obtain information

 27.—(1) For the purpose of finding out whether the provisions of
this Act or any applicable aviation safety subsidiary legislation is
being complied with, a safety inspector may by notice require any

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
53  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

holder of an aviation safety instrument or other person to provide,
within a reasonable period specified in the notice, and in the form and
manner that may be specified in the notice, all documents and
information relating to any matter —

    (a) which a safety inspector considers necessary for that
         purpose; and

       (b) which are within the knowledge of that person or in that
            person’s custody or under that person’s control.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (2) The power to require a person to provide any document or
information under subsection (1) includes the power —

    (a) to require that person, or any individual who is or was an
         officer or employee of that person —

    (i) to provide an explanation of the document or
        information; or

    (ii) to attend before a safety inspector for an interview
         and to answer any question and give a statement
         about the document or information;

    (b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
         that person to state, to the best of that person’s knowledge
         and belief, where it is; and

       (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
            form, to require the information to be made available to the
            Authority in legible form.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (3) Where a person is required to attend before a safety inspector for
an interview, the safety inspector must —

    (a) record the person’s answers or statement at the interview in
         writing;

    (b) read over that written record in paragraph (a) of the
         person’s answers or statement or, if the person is for any
         reason unable to understand or communicate in spoken
         English sufficiently, use an interpreter to inform the person
         about contents of the written record; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  54

       (c) then require the person to sign that written record.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (4) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do
anything required of the person by notice under subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

(5) Any person who —

(a) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any document
     or information which the person has been required by a
     notice under subsection (1) to provide; or

(b) in providing any document or information required under
     subsection (1), makes any statement which the person
     knows to be false in a material particular or recklessly
     makes such a statement,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (6) If any person fails to comply with a notice under subsection (1),
the court may, on the application of the Authority, make any order
that the court thinks fit to secure compliance with the notice, and any
such order may provide that all the costs or expenses of and incidental
to the application must be borne by that person or by any officer of a
company or other body who is responsible for the failure.

 (7) The Authority or any safety inspector (as the case may be) is
entitled without payment to keep any document or information, or
any copy or extract of any document or information, provided under
subsection (1).

                                                                              [4M

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

Power of entry to premises, aircraft, etc.

 28.—(1) For the purpose of finding out whether the provisions of
this Act or any applicable aviation safety subsidiary legislation is
being complied with, the Director‑General of Civil Aviation and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
55  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

every safety inspector has right of access at any reasonable time to the
following:

    (a) any aircraft, aerodrome, building, or place;

    (b) any document or record concerning any aircraft,
         aeronautical product, or aviation‑related service.

 (2) In addition, where the Director-General of Civil Aviation or any
safety inspector —

    (a) has reasonable grounds to believe that —

    (i) any breach of any provision in this Part or the
        applicable aviation safety subsidiary legislation is
        being or about to be committed;

    (ii) a condition imposed under any aviation safety
         instrument is not being complied with; or

    (iii) a situation exists within the civil aviation system or is
          about to exist that constitutes a danger to persons or
          property; and

    (b) has reasonable grounds for suspecting that there is on, or
         in, any aircraft, aerodrome, building, or place, any
         particular thing which may be evidential material
         relevant to an offence under any provision of this Part or
         of any applicable aviation safety subsidiary legislation,

the Director-General of Civil Aviation or the safety inspector may
enter at any reasonable time the aircraft, aerodrome, building, or
place and exercise any powers referred to in subsection (4) to
determine whether or not a matter referred to in paragraph (a)(i), (ii)
and (iii) exists.

 (3) The Director-General of Civil Aviation or any safety inspector
is authorised to enter any aircraft, aerodrome, building, or place under
subsection (1) only if the occupier of the aircraft, aerodrome,
building, or place has consented to the entry or after giving 6 hours’
prior notice of that entry.

 (4) Every person who is authorised to have access to or to enter any
aircraft, aerodrome, building, or place under subsection (1) or (2)
may —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  56

(a) require any person who is in possession of an aviation
     safety instrument, or any certificate, book, manual, record,
     list, notice, or other document that is required to be kept by
     or under this Act, relating or reasonably believed to relate
     to the commission of an offence or the non‑compliance
     with the condition (wherever and by whomsoever kept)
     and take and retain extracts or copies thereof to produce or
     surrender it;

(b) compel any person who is able to operate any equipment at
     the premises to do so for the purpose of enabling the
     authorised person to ascertain whether the equipment, or a
     disk, tape or other storage device that can be used or
     associated with the equipment, contains information that is
     relevant to the investigation;

          (c) if such information is found in exercise of the power in
              paragraph (b), produce, or compel the production of, the
              information in documentary form, and keep or copy the
              documents so produced or transfer, or compel the transfer
              of, the information to a disk, tape or other storage device,
              and remove it from the premises;

(d) require any person in possession of, or having control of,
     any machinery, equipment or other thing relating to the
     maintenance, operation or servicing of any aircraft or
     aeronautical product, or the provision of air traffic service
     or aviation‑related services to produce the machinery,
     equipment or other thing for inspection and to answer
     questions or provide information relating to the machinery,
     equipment or other thing;

          (e) inspect and test any machinery, equipment or other thing
              mentioned in paragraph (d);

          (f) if the Director-General of Civil Aviation or safety inspector
              considers it necessary to do so for the purpose of obtaining
              evidence of the contravention of any provision of this Part
              or any applicable aviation safety subsidiary legislation, or
              any condition of an aviation safety instrument, seize any
              machinery, equipment, substance, record or other thing;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
57  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

    (g) inspect, examine and take samples of any substance or
         thing on or in the aircraft, aerodrome, building, or place; or

    (h) photograph, or make sketches of, the aircraft, aerodrome,
         building, or place and any substance or thing on or in the
         aircraft, aerodrome, building, or place.

 (5) If the Director-General of Civil Aviation or a safety inspector
seizes anything under this section, it may be retained by him or her
until the completion of any proceedings (including proceedings on
appeal) in which it may be evidence but, in the case of records, the
person from whom the records were seized must be permitted to
inspect and make copies of the records.

 (6) Subsection (5) ceases to have effect in relation to things seized
if, on the application of a person aggrieved by the seizure, the court in
which proceedings mentioned in that subsection are instituted so
orders.

(7) The Director-General of Civil Aviation or a safety inspector —

    (a) may arrest without warrant any person whom he or she
         reasonably believes has committed an arrestable offence
         under this Act; and

    (b) may exercise all or any of the powers in relation to
         investigations into an arrestable offence conferred on a
         police officer by the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 in any
         case relating to the commission of an arrestable offence
         under this Act or in any case where an arrestable offence is
         disclosed under any written law in the course of an
         investigation under this Act.

 (8) For the purposes of subsection (7), when the Director‑General
of Civil Aviation or a safety inspector is exercising the powers of a
police officer under that subsection, he or she is deemed to be an
officer not below the rank of inspector of police.

                                                                              [4N

Obligation to notify reportable safety matters

 29.—(1) If a responsible person has knowledge of any reportable
safety matter, the person must, where required to do so under the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  58

applicable aviation safety subsidiary legislation, notify the Authority
of the reportable safety matter in the manner prescribed in the
aviation safety subsidiary legislation, including those of the
particulars of the matter prescribed by that subsidiary legislation
that are known.

 (2) A responsible person shall be guilty of an offence if the person
fails to comply with subsection (1).

 (3) A responsible person is not excused from giving any
information required by subsection (1) on the ground that the
disclosure of the information might tend to incriminate the person or
expose the person to a penalty.

 (4) Where a responsible person claims, before giving any
information that the person is required by subsection (1) to give,
that the disclosure of the information might tend to incriminate the
person —

(a) that information;

(b) the giving of the information; and

          (c) any information, document or thing obtained as a direct or
              indirect consequence of the giving of the information,

is not admissible in evidence against the person in any criminal
proceedings other than proceedings for an offence under section 86.

(5) In this section —

“reportable safety matter” means safety matter that is prescribed
   by any aviation safety subsidiary legislation to be a reportable
   safety matter;

“responsible person”, in relation to a reportable safety matter,
   means —

          (a) a person who operates, maintains, or services, or does
               any other act in respect of, any aircraft, aeronautical
               product or aviation‑related service; or

          (b) any other person,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
59  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

    who is prescribed by the applicable aviation safety subsidiary
    legislation for the purposes of this definition in relation to the
    reportable safety matter concerned;

    “safety matter” means —

    (a) the occurrence of any incident involving any
         Singapore registered aircraft or any aircraft
         operated by a Singapore operator which endangers
         or which, if not corrected, would endanger an
         aircraft, its occupants or any other person,
         including and not limited to defects or
         malfunctioning of the aircraft or any part of the
         aircraft;

    (b) the occurrence of any incident involving any facility
         on the ground used or intended to be used for
         purposes of or in connection with the operation of an
         aircraft, which endangers or which, if not corrected,
         would endanger an aircraft, its occupants or any other
         person, including and not limited to defects or
         malfunctioning of the facility or any part of the
         facility;

    (c) any information that relates to compliance, or failure
        to comply, with any provision of this Act or of any
        applicable aviation safety subsidiary legislation, or
        with the law of any Contracting State in which the
        aircraft operates;

    (d) any other occurrence that affected, is affecting, or
         might affect safety of transport by air that may be
         prescribed by any aviation safety subsidiary
         legislation to be a safety matter.
                                                                    [4O

Exemption of aircraft and parts thereof from seizure on patent
claims

 30.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the importation into, and storage
in, Singapore of spare parts and spare equipment for an aircraft to
which this section applies and the use and installation of the parts and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  60

spare equipment in the repair of such an aircraft does not entail any
seizure or detention of the aircraft or of the spare parts or spare
equipment or any proceedings being brought against the owner or
operator of the aircraft or the owner of the spare parts or spare
equipment or any other interference with the aircraft by or on behalf
of any person in Singapore on the ground that the spare parts or spare
equipment or their installation are or is an infringement of any patent,
design or model.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to any spare parts or
spare equipment which are sold or distributed in Singapore or are
exported from Singapore for sale or distribution.

 (3) This section applies to an aircraft, other than an aircraft used in
military, customs or police service, registered in any country or
territory in the case of which there is for the time being in force an
order made by the Minister, with a view to the fulfilment of the
provisions of the Chicago Convention to which this section relates,
that the benefits of those provisions apply to that country or territory,
and to any other aircraft that the Minister may, by order, specify.

                                                                                [5

        Division 4 — Special powers and prohibited activities

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

Special powers in case of emergency

 31.—(1) In time of war, whether actual or imminent, or when a
Proclamation of Emergency under the Constitution is in force, the
Minister may, by order, regulate or prohibit, either absolutely or
subject to any conditions that may be contained in the order, and
despite the provisions of this Part or any subsidiary legislation made
under this Part, the navigation of all or any descriptions of aircraft
over Singapore or any portion of Singapore; and may, by order,
provide for taking possession of and using for the purposes of the
Singapore Armed Forces or of any visiting force lawfully present in
Singapore any aerodrome or any aircraft in Singapore or any
machinery, plant, material or things found in or on the aerodrome
or aircraft, and for regulating or prohibiting the use, erection,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
61  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

building, maintenance or establishment of any aerodrome, flying
school, or landing ground, of any class or description.

 (2) An order made under this section may make, for the purpose of
the order, such provisions as an order under section 8 may make for
the purpose of securing compliance with the provisions of the order
having effect by virtue of section 8(2)(n).

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), any person who suffers direct injury
or loss, owing to the operation of an order of the Minister under this
section, is entitled to receive compensation from the Government
from any public funds that may lawfully be applied for the purpose,
the amount thereof to be fixed, in default of agreement, by a single
arbitrator to be agreed upon or failing agreement to be appointed by
the Chief Justice.

 (4) No compensation is to be payable under subsection (3) by
reason of the operation of a general order under this section
prohibiting flying in Singapore or any part of Singapore.

                                                                                [6

Prohibited photography over protected areas

 32.—(1) The Minister may by order in the Gazette declare any area
to be a protected area within the meaning of this section.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (2) If —

       (a) an unmanned aircraft has on board equipment for taking
            photographs when flying; and

       (b) a photograph is taken of the whole or any part of a
            protected area using that photographic equipment on board
            the unmanned aircraft,

the operator of the unmanned aircraft, and the person taking the
photograph if the person is not the operator, shall each be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                                                [16/2015; 34/2019]

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (2) shall
be liable on conviction —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  62

(a) to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 2 years or to both; but

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, to a fine not
            exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 5 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [34/2019]

 (4) A person is a repeat offender in relation to an offence under
subsection (2) if the person has been convicted or found guilty
(whether before, on or after 21 December 2019) on at least one other
earlier occasion of an offence under subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [34/2019]

 (5) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (2) —

(a) it is not necessary for the prosecution to prove that an
     accused knew or had reason to believe that —

          (i) the area is a protected area; or

          (ii) the unmanned aircraft had on board equipment for
               taking photographs when flying; but

(b) it is a defence to the charge for the accused to prove, on a
     balance of probabilities, that —

          (i) the photograph of the whole or any part of the
              protected area using photographic equipment on
              board the unmanned aircraft was not taken
              intentionally but was taken because of weather
              conditions or other unavoidable cause; or

              (ii) the accused has in force a permit from a competent
                   security officer and had, in accordance with that
                   permit, taken, or caused to be taken, any photograph
                   of the whole or any part of a protected area using
                   photographic equipment on board the unmanned
                   aircraft.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (6) Every offence under this section is an arrestable offence within
the meaning of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
63  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

 (7) In this section, a reference to taking a photograph includes a
reference to —

    (a) making a film or a video recording; and

    (b) making a recording of images for the purpose of
         broadcasting or live‑streaming the images.
                                                                             [7

                                                                                                     [16/2015]

Permit needed for certain overflight by unmanned aircraft

 33.—(1) A person must not operate an unmanned aircraft to fly, at
any height, over any part of any protected area declared under
section 32.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (2) Every operator of an unmanned aircraft who contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                [16/2015; 34/2019]

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (2) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 2 years or to both; but

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, to a fine not
            exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 5 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [34/2019]

 (4) A person is a repeat offender in relation to an offence under
subsection (2) if the person has been convicted or found guilty
(whether before, on or after 21 December 2019) on at least one other
earlier occasion of an offence under subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [34/2019]

 (5) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (2) —

       (a) it is not necessary for the prosecution to prove that an
            accused knew or had reason to believe that the area flown
            over is a protected area; but

       (b) it is a defence to the charge for the accused to prove, on a
            balance of probabilities, that —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  64

          (i) the accused did not intentionally cause the unmanned
              aircraft to fly over the protected area, and the
              overflight was not due to any want of reasonable
              care on the part of the accused; or

              (ii) the overflight was authorised by and in accordance
                   with a permit from a competent security officer.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (6) Every offence under this section is an arrestable offence within
the meaning of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

                                                                              [7A

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

Absolute prohibition of carriage of dangerous materials on
unmanned aircraft

 34.—(1) If —

       (a) a person operates an unmanned aircraft to fly indoors or at
            any height over any area in Singapore; and

       (b) the unmanned aircraft carries a prohibited item when so
            flying,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (2) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (1) —

       (a) it is not necessary for the prosecution to prove that an
            accused knew that the unmanned aircraft carried a
            prohibited item when flying; but

       (b) it is a defence to the charge for the accused to prove, on a
            balance of probabilities, that the accused did not know, and
            could not reasonably have been expected to know, that the
            unmanned aircraft carried a prohibited item when flying.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (3) Every offence under this section is an arrestable offence within
the meaning of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
65            Air Navigation Act 1966                        2020 Ed.

(4) In this section, “prohibited item” means —

    (a) any weapon, substance or other thing the possession of
         which (for any purpose) would constitute an offence under
         any of the following written laws:

    (i) the Guns, Explosives and Weapons Control Act
         2021;

                                                                [Act 3 of 2021 wef 01/07/2025]

    (ii) the Corrosive and Explosive Substances and
         Offensive Weapons Act 1958;

    (iii) [Deleted by Act 3 of 2021 wef 01/07/2025]

    (b) any biological agent, biological agent waste or toxin within
         the meaning of the Biological Agents and Toxins Act 2005;

    (c) any radioactive material, radioactive substance or
        radioactive waste within the meaning of the Radiation
        Protection Act 2007; or

    (d) any other hazardous material (whether gaseous, liquid or
         solid) that is prescribed, in a notification in the Gazette, by
         the Minister charged with the responsibility for homefront
         security to be a prohibited item for the purposes of this
         section.
                                                                           [7B

                                                                                                     [16/2015]

Discharge from unmanned aircraft

35.—(1) If —

    (a) a person operates an unmanned aircraft to fly indoors or at
         any height over any area in Singapore; and

    (b) the unmanned aircraft when so flying discharges anything
         (whether gaseous, liquid or solid),

the person shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                [16/2015; 34/2019]

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  66

(a) to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 2 years or to both; but

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, to a fine not
            exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 5 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [34/2019]

 (3) A person is a repeat offender in relation to an offence under
subsection (1) if the person has been convicted or found guilty
(whether before, on or after 21 December 2019) on at least one other
earlier occasion of an offence under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [34/2019]

 (4) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that an accused knew or had
reason to believe that the unmanned aircraft discharged anything
while in flight, but it is a defence to the charge if the accused proves,
on a balance of probabilities, that —

(a) the accused —

          (i) did not intentionally cause the thing to discharge
              from the unmanned aircraft and the discharge was
              not due to any want of reasonable care; and

          (ii) took all reasonably practicable steps to stop or reduce
               further discharge of that thing from the unmanned
               aircraft as soon as practicable after discovering the
               discharge;

(b) the thing escaped from the unmanned aircraft operated by
     the accused in consequence of damage, other than
     intentional damage, to the unmanned aircraft and all
     reasonable precautions were taken by the accused after the
     occurrence of the damage or the discovery of the discharge
     for the purpose of preventing or minimising further
     discharge from the unmanned aircraft; or

          (c) the accused has in force a discharge permit from the
              Authority and had caused the thing to be discharged from
              the unmanned aircraft in accordance with that discharge
              permit.

                                                                                                          [16/2015]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
67  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

 (5) However, it is not a defence to a charge for an offence under
subsection (1) if —

    (a) no individual dies or is hurt;

    (b) no property is destroyed or damaged; or

    (c) no hazard is caused to another aircraft, to anyone or any
        property,

as a result of anything discharged from an unmanned aircraft in flight.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (6) For the purposes of subsection (4)(b), damage to an unmanned
aircraft or to its equipment is intentional damage if the damage arose
in circumstances in which the operator of the unmanned aircraft —

    (a) acted with intent to cause the damage; or

       (b) acted recklessly and with knowledge that damage would
            probably result.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (7) A person who is refused a discharge permit, or whose discharge
permit is cancelled by the Authority, may appeal to the Minister
against the Authority’s refusal or cancellation (as the case may be) in
the manner prescribed under section 8 or 9; and the Minister’s
decision on appeal is final.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (8) In this section, “discharge”, from an unmanned aircraft,
includes dropping from an unmanned aircraft but does not include
the discharge of exhaust from an unmanned aircraft during flight.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (9) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the operation of the
Military Manoeuvres Act 1905.

                                                                              [7C

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

              Division 5 — Serious risks to aviation safety

Interference with aeronautical facilities

 36.—(1) This section applies if the Authority believes on
reasonable grounds that an installation is or may be, either actively
or passively, causing interference with communications to or from

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  68

aircraft, or communications to or from centres established for air
traffic control, or with navigational aids or with surveillance systems,
in circumstances that are likely to endanger the safety of aircraft
engaged in international air navigation or air navigation within, to or
from Singapore.

 (2) The Authority may serve a notice on the proprietor directing the
proprietor to permit the installation to be inspected and tested by a
safety inspector at a reasonable time.

 (3) Upon the service of the notice, the safety inspector may enter
the premises or place where the installation is installed, kept or
operated and inspect or test the installation.

 (4) A safety inspector exercising powers under subsection (3) must
produce his or her identification card if requested to do so.

 (5) If as a result of such an inspection or otherwise, the Authority
considers it necessary to do so for the safety of aircraft mentioned in
subsection (1), the Authority may serve a notice on the proprietor
directing the proprietor to make such modifications to the installation,
or to take such other action, as is necessary to eliminate the cause of
the interference, within a reasonable time specified in the notice.

 (6) If the installation has been installed and is used and operated in
accordance with all applicable laws, the proprietor may recover from
the Authority the amount of all reasonable expenses incurred, and of
losses actually suffered, in complying with a direction under
subsection (5).

 (7) If a direction under subsection (5) is not complied with to its
satisfaction, the Authority may —

(a) authorise any of its officers, with any reasonable assistance
     that the officer requires, to enter the premises or place in
     which the installation is installed, kept or operated, with
     any force that is necessary and reasonable, and to take the
     action that was so directed; and

(b) recover all expenses reasonably incurred by the Authority
     in the exercise of its powers under this subsection from the
     proprietor in default.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
69  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

 (8) Without affecting the right of the Authority to exercise the
powers under subsection (7), if any person on whom a direction under
subsection (5) is served, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with the requirements of that notice, that person shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $50 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

(9) In this section —

    “installation” includes any electrical or other equipment or
       device or any structure;

    “proprietor”, in relation to an installation, means the owner or
       user of the installation or the owner or occupier of the
       premises or place where the installation is installed, kept or
       operated.

                                                             [8

Tampering with aircraft, etc.

 37.—(1) A person must not tamper with —

       (a) an aircraft or any part of an aircraft; or

       (b) an aeronautical product that is of such a type that
            tampering with it may endanger the safety of an aircraft
            or any person or property,

if tampering with it may endanger the safety of the aircraft or any
person or property.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or to
both.

                                                                              [8A

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  70

Interference with crew and unruly passengers, etc.

38.—(1) A person who, while in an aircraft that is in flight —

(a) does any act that interferes with a crew member of the
     aircraft in the course of the performance of the crew
     member’s duties connected with the safe operation of the
     aircraft;

(b) behaves in a threatening, offensive, insulting or disorderly
     manner towards a crew member of the aircraft; or

          (c) does any act that threatens the safety of an aircraft or of
              persons onboard an aircraft,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
5 years or to both.

 (2) A person who fails to comply with any commands given to the
person directly by the pilot‑in‑command, or indirectly by the
pilot‑in‑command through a crew member, for the purpose of
securing the safe operation of the aircraft in flight and the safety
and wellbeing of all passengers and crew on board and the safety of
cargo carried on the aircraft, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

(3) A person who —

(a) boards an aircraft in such a state of intoxication as to be
     incapable of looking after himself or herself, or as to
     jeopardise or be likely to jeopardise the good order and
     discipline required on board an aircraft; or

(b) becomes intoxicated onboard an aircraft in flight to such an
     extent as to be incapable of looking after himself or herself,
     or as to jeopardise or be likely to jeopardise the good order
     and discipline required on board an aircraft,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
71  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

(4) A person who —

    (a) operates a portable electronic device on board an aircraft in
         breach of any aviation safety subsidiary legislation; or

    (b) smokes in an aircraft when instructed not to smoke by any
         crew member or any passenger information sign or placard
         in the aircraft,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (5) In any proceedings against a person for an offence under
subsection (3), it is a defence for the person charged to prove —

    (a) that he or she, at the material time, was in a state of
         intoxication or became intoxicated not because of being
         under the influence of any alcohol, drugs or other
         intoxicating substances; or

    (b) that he or she, at the material time, was in a state of
         intoxication or became intoxicated as a result of taking
         prescription medication in accordance with a medical
         authorisation.

(6) For the purposes of this section, an aircraft is in flight —

    (a) from the time when all external doors of the aircraft are
         closed following embarkation for a flight until the time
         when any such door is opened for disembarkation;

    (b) if the aircraft makes a forced landing in any country or
         territory other than Singapore, from the time when all
         external doors of the aircraft are closed following
         embarkation for a flight until the time when the
         competent authorities of the country or territory in which
         the forced landing takes place take over responsibility for
         the aircraft and for the persons and property on board the
         aircraft; and

    (c) if the aircraft makes a forced landing in Singapore, from
        the time when all external doors of the aircraft are closed

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  72

          following embarkation for a flight until the time when a
          police officer arrives at the place of landing,

and any reference in this Act to an aircraft in flight includes a
reference to an aircraft during any period when the aircraft is on the
surface of the sea or land but not within the territorial limits of any
country.

                                                                              [8B

                                                                                                           [32/2018]

Dangerous activity involving aircraft, aeronautical product,
etc.

 39.—(1) A person must not operate, maintain or service, or do any
other act in respect of, any aircraft, aeronautical product or
aviation‑related service in a manner that the person knows or ought
reasonably to know —

       (a) could endanger the life of another person; or

       (b) could endanger the person or the property of another
            person.

 (2) A person must not cause or permit any aircraft, aeronautical
product or aviation‑related service to be operated, maintained or
serviced, or cause or permit any other act to be done in respect of any
aircraft, aeronautical product or aviation‑related service, in a manner
that the person knows or ought reasonably to know —

       (a) could endanger the life of another person; or

       (b) could endanger the person or the property of another
            person.

 (3) A person must not secrete himself or herself in an aircraft for the
purpose of being carried in the aircraft, or travel in an aircraft, without
the consent of the operator or pilot‑in‑command of the aircraft.

 (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (2) or (3) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
5 years or to both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
73  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

 (5) Despite subsection (4), where a person commits an offence
under subsection (1) or (2) by doing any act, or causing or permitting
any act —

    (a) involving an unmanned aircraft; and

    (b) knowing that or reckless as to whether, when so acting or
         causing or permitting the act, the life or property of another
         person could be endangered or the person could be
         endangered,

then the person who is guilty of the offence shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 10 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [34/2019]

 (6) For the purposes of subsection (1) or (2), it is immaterial that the
accused is the holder of an aviation safety instrument or is exempt
from a requirement to hold an aviation safety instrument.

                                                                              [8C

                                                                                                           [34/2019]

Flying without satisfying safety requirements

 40.—(1) An owner or operator, or the pilot‑in‑command of a
Singapore registered aircraft must not commence a flight in the
aircraft, or permit a flight in the aircraft to commence, if —

       (a) there is no aviation safety instrument known as a certificate
            of airworthiness in force in respect of the aircraft; and

       (b) any aviation safety subsidiary legislation does not
            authorise the flight without a certificate of airworthiness.

 (2) An owner or operator, or the pilot-in-command of a Singapore
registered aircraft, or the Singapore operator of a foreign registered
aircraft must not commence a flight in the aircraft, or permit a flight
in the aircraft to commence, if one or more of the following apply:

       (a) there is outstanding a requirement imposed by or under any
            applicable aviation safety subsidiary legislation in relation
            to the maintenance of the aircraft;

       (b) the aircraft will require maintenance before the flight can
            end;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  74

          (c) there is a defect or damage that may endanger the safety of
              the aircraft or any person or property;

(d) the aircraft is unsafe for flight.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
5 years or to both.

                                                                              [8D

Trespassing at aerodromes, etc.

 41.—(1) A person must not, without prior authorisation from the
Authority —

       (a) enter or remain within a prohibited area in an aerodrome;

       (b) bring or leave any property on a prohibited area within an
            aerodrome;

       (c) operate any vehicle on a prohibited area within an
            aerodrome;

       (d) bring any animal or bird on to a prohibited area within an
            aerodrome; or

       (e) permit any animal or bird under his or her possession or
            control to trespass on a prohibited area within an
            aerodrome.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000.

 (3) Where a person contravenes subsection (1), or any property,
vehicle, animal or bird is found in contravention of subsection (1), the
Director‑General of Civil Aviation or any safety inspector, may
without warrant, arrest and remove that person, property, vehicle,
animal or bird, as the case may be.

 (4) In this section, “prohibited area”, in relation to an aerodrome,
means any part of the aerodrome upon which is posted a notice
relating to that part of the aerodrome, being a notice to the effect that

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
75  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

trespassing upon that part of the aerodrome is prohibited and
purporting to have been posted with the authority of the Authority.

                                                                              [8E

Trespass, nuisance and responsibility for damage

 42.—(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), no action lies in respect
of trespass or in respect of nuisance, by reason only of the flight of
aircraft over any property at a height above the ground which, having
regard to wind, weather, and all the circumstances of the case is
reasonable, or the ordinary incidents of the flight, so long as the
provisions of this Part and any subsidiary legislation made under this
Part are duly complied with.

 (2) Where material damage or loss is caused by an aircraft in flight,
taking off, or landing, or by any person in any such aircraft, or by any
article falling from any such aircraft, to any person or property on
land or water, damages are recoverable from the owner of the aircraft
in respect of the damage or loss, without proof of negligence or
intention or other cause of action, as though the damage or loss had
been caused by the owner’s wilful act, neglect or default, except
where the damage or loss was caused by or contributed to by the
negligence of the person by whom the damage or loss was suffered.

 (3) Where material damage or loss mentioned in subsection (2) is
caused in circumstances in which —

       (a) damages are recoverable from the owner in respect of the
            damage or loss by virtue only of this section; and

       (b) a legal liability is created in some person other than the
            owner to pay damages in respect of that damage or loss,

the owner is entitled to be indemnified by that other person against
any claim in respect of that damage or loss.

 (4) Where any aircraft has been bona fide demised, let, or hired out
for a period exceeding 14 days to any other person by the owner of the
aircraft and no pilot, commander, navigator, or operative member of
the crew of the aircraft is in the employment of the owner, this section
has effect as though for references to the owner there were substituted

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  76

references to the person to whom the aircraft has been so demised, let,
or hired out.

                                                                                [9

Penalty for dangerous flying

 43.—(1) Where an aircraft is flown in such a manner as to be the
cause of unnecessary danger to any person or property on land or
water, the pilot or the person in charge of the aircraft, and also the
owner of the aircraft, unless he, she or it proves to the satisfaction of
the court that the aircraft was so flown without his, her or its actual
fault or privity, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

 (2) For the purposes of this section, “owner” in relation to an
aircraft includes any person by whom the aircraft is hired at the time
of the offence.

 (3) This section is in addition to and not in derogation of any
provisions made by the Minister under the powers conferred by
section 8 or by the Authority under the powers conferred by section 9.

                                                                               [10

Wreck and salvage

 44.—(1) Any services rendered in assisting, or in saving life from,
or in saving the cargo or apparel of, an aircraft in, on or over the sea or
any tidal water, or on or over the shores of the sea or any tidal water,
are deemed to be salvage services in all cases in which they would
have been salvage services if they had been rendered in relation to a
vessel; and where salvage services are rendered by an aircraft to any
property or person, the owner of the aircraft is entitled to the same
reward for those services as the owner would have been entitled to if
the aircraft had been a vessel.

 (2) Subsection (1) has effect even though the aircraft concerned is a
foreign aircraft, and even though the services in question are rendered
elsewhere than within the limits of the territorial waters adjacent to
any part of Singapore.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
77  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

 (3) The Minister may, by regulations, direct that any provisions of
any written law for the time being in force which relate to wreck, to
salvage of life or property or to the duty of rendering assistance to
vessels in distress are, with any exceptions, adaptations and
modifications that may be specified in the regulations, to apply in
relation to aircraft as those provisions apply in relation to vessels.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, any provisions of any written
law which relate to vessels laid by or neglected as unfit for sea service
are deemed to be provisions relating to wreck.

                                                                               [11

             Division 6 — Protection of safety information

Interpretation of this Division

 45. In this Division, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “aviation safety matter” means any information about any
         conduct, transaction, process, practice, occurrence,
         circumstance or matter that affects, or might affect,
         aviation safety, and includes —

              (a) safety matter within the meaning given by section 29;

              (b) any facts, statistics or other data about any conduct,
                   transaction, process, practice, occurrence,
                   circumstance or matter affecting, or that might
                   affect, aviation safety, and which is in a form that
                   is capable of being communicated, analysed or
                   processed (whether by an individual or a computer
                   or other automated methods); and

              (c) data sets that are relevant to aviation safety
                   management,

         but does not include excluded information;

      “competent authority” means the person designated by the
         voluntary reporting rules as the competent authority for the
         purpose of section 48(4) in respect of each voluntary and
         confidential reporting scheme established by those rules;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  78

“excluded information” means —

           (a) all statements (whether oral or in writing) obtained
                from persons by an investigator, or a staff member or
                consultant of the Transport Safety Investigation
                Bureau of Singapore in the course of an
                investigation or a preliminary assessment
                (including any record of such a statement) under
                the Transport Safety Investigations Act 2018;

                                                                       [Act 36 of 2018 wef 01/01/2024]

           (b) all information recorded by an investigator, or a staff
                member or consultant of the Transport Safety
                Investigation Bureau of Singapore in the course of
                an investigation or a preliminary assessment under
                the Transport Safety Investigations Act 2018;

                                                                       [Act 36 of 2018 wef 01/01/2024]

           (c) all communications with a person involved in the
                operation of an aircraft that is or was the subject of an
                investigation or a preliminary assessment under the
                Transport Safety Investigations Act 2018;

                                                                       [Act 36 of 2018 wef 01/01/2024]

           (d) all medical or private information regarding persons
                (including deceased persons) involved in an accident
                or incident that is being or has been investigated, or
                the subject of a preliminary assessment, under the
                Transport Safety Investigations Act 2018;

                                                                       [Act 36 of 2018 wef 01/01/2024]

          (da) all records of the analysis of information or evidential
                material acquired in the course of an investigation or
                a preliminary assessment under the Transport Safety
                Investigations Act 2018 (such as but not limited to
                flight recorder information), including any opinion
                expressed by a person in the analysis of such
                information or evidential material;

                                                                       [Act 36 of 2018 wef 01/01/2024]

           (e) any information about any conduct, transaction,
                process, practice, occurrence, circumstance or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
79  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

    matter that is prescribed by the voluntary reporting
    rules as excluded information;

    (f) any reportable safety matter within the meaning
        given by section 29;

    (g) any information about any contravention of any
         provision of this Part which is not required by
         section 29 to be reported;

    (h) any matter showing a serious and imminent threat to
         a person’s health or life; or

    (i) an act of unlawful interference within the meaning of
        section 63;

    “protected information” means —

    (a) information that is contained in a report of an aviation
         safety matter made under any voluntary reporting
         rules;

    (b) information that is obtained or generated by a
         designated person in the course of considering a
         report of an aviation safety matter made under any
         voluntary reporting rules;

    (c) records of the analysis of information contained in a
        report of an aviation safety matter made under any
        voluntary reporting rules, including opinions
        expressed by a person in that analysis; or

    (d) information about any other aviation safety matter
         that is obtained or generated by the Authority in the
         performance of its functions or duties under this Act
         or any other written law.
                                                                     [12

                                                                                           [18/2018]

Voluntary reporting rules

 46.—(1) The Minister may make rules in the Gazette providing for
the voluntary and confidential reporting of an aviation safety matter
to one or more persons designated in the rules (called in this Act a
designated person) —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  80

(a) to identify deficiencies and problems arising out of the
     reports; and

      (b) to provide data for safety improvements to the Singapore
           aviation system.

                                                                                                         [18/2018]

(2) The voluntary reporting rules must provide for —

(a) one or more schemes for the voluntary and confidential
     reporting of an aviation safety matter to a designated
     person;

(b) the manner in which such reports are to be made;

          (c) the use and disclosure by a designated person for a scheme
              of —

          (i) information contained in such reports; or

          (ii) information the designated person obtains or
               generates in the course of considering any such
               report,

          (c) only for a purpose in subsection (1) and in an anonymised
              form or as statistics which do not identify any particular
              person;

(d) the designation for the purposes of section 48(4) of a
     competent authority in respect of each scheme; and

       (e) any other matters necessary or incidental to the
            establishment or operation of such a scheme in
            accordance with subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (3) The voluntary reporting rules may provide that any
contravention of any of the provisions of the rules shall be an
offence punishable with a fine not exceeding $20,000.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (4) All voluntary reporting rules made under this section must be
presented to Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the
Gazette.

                                                                             [12A

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
81  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

Limits to disclosure of aviation safety matter reported
voluntarily

47.—(1) Subject to subsection (4) —

    (a) a report of an aviation safety matter made by a person
         (called in this section the reporter) to any designated
         person in accordance with the voluntary reporting rules, or
         any evidence of the contents of such a report; and

    (b) the fact that such a report of an aviation safety matter was
         made by the reporter to any designated person,

are not admissible in evidence against the reporter in any
administrative proceedings before any tribunal in Singapore, any
civil proceedings, or any criminal proceedings before any court other
than criminal proceedings for an offence under section 86.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (2) A person is not entitled to take disciplinary action against the
person’s employee by using information derived from a report of an
aviation safety matter made by the employee to a designated person in
accordance with the voluntary reporting rules.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (4) A tribunal is not entitled to make a decision of an administrative
character (whether or not in the exercise of a discretion) under any
written law against a reporter using information derived from a report
of an aviation safety matter made by the reporter to a designated
person in accordance with the voluntary reporting rules.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (5) To avoid doubt, this section does not prevent the use of
information derived from a source that is not a report of an aviation
safety matter made to any designated person in accordance with the
voluntary reporting rules.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  82

 (6) In this section, “tribunal” includes any person or body of
persons constituted and vested by or under any written law to make a
decision of an administrative character.

                                                                             [12B

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

Limits to disclosure of protected information

 48.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), every designated person and any
other person who has or has had access to any protected information
must not disclose or make available any protected information to any
other person or a court.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (2) However, subsection (1) does not apply —

       (a) to anything done by a person in performing functions or
            exercising powers under, or in connection with, any
            voluntary reporting rules;

       (b) to disclosure to a court in civil proceedings where the
            General Division of the High Court makes an order under
            subsection (3);

       (c) to disclosure authorised by a competent authority under
            subsection (4);

       (d) to disclosure to a court in criminal proceedings for an
            offence under section 86; and

       (e) to disclosure in an anonymised form or as statistics which
            do not identify any person.

                                                                                                [18/2018; 40/2019]

 (3) If the General Division of the High Court is satisfied that any
adverse domestic or international impact that the disclosure might
have on any current or future collection and availability of aviation
safety matter is outweighed by the public interest in the
administration of justice, the General Division of the High Court
may order the disclosure of protected information.

                                                                                                [18/2018; 40/2019]

 (4) If a competent authority is satisfied, having regard to the
aviation safety matter in question, that any adverse domestic or
international impact that the disclosure might have on any current or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
83  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

future collection and availability of aviation safety matter is
outweighed by the need for maintaining or improving aviation
safety, the competent authority may order the disclosure of protected
information.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (5) In making an order under subsection (3) or (4), the General
Division of the High Court or competent authority (as the case may
be) may direct that the protected information, must not —

    (a) be published or communicated to any particular person or
         persons; or

    (b) be published or communicated except —

    (i) in an anonymised form or as statistics which do not
        identify any person; or

              (ii) in such other manner, and to such persons, as the
                   General Division of the High Court or competent
                   authority specifies.

                                                                                                [18/2018; 40/2019]

 (6) If a person is prohibited by this section from disclosing any
protected information, then the person cannot be required by any
court to disclose the information, and any information disclosed by
the person in contravention of this section is not admissible in any
civil proceedings or any criminal proceedings (other than
proceedings against the person under this section).

                                                                             [12C

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

                                  PART 2A
                AIR TRANSPORT UNDERTAKINGS

                                                                             [Act 36 of 2018 wef 01/01/2024]

                         Division 1 — Repealed
49. to 53. [Repealed by Act 36 of 2018 wef 01/01/2024]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  84

          Division 2 — Repealed

54. [Repealed by Act 36 of 2018 wef 01/01/2024]

                           Division 3 — Repealed

 55. to 60. [Repealed by Act 36 of 2018 wef 01/01/2024]

Information as to air transport undertakings and use of
customs aerodromes

 61.—(1) The Minister may make regulations —

       (a) requiring any person —

               (i) who carries on the business of carrying passengers or
                   goods in aircraft for hire or reward on any journeys
                   or classes of journeys (whether beginning and ending
                   at the same point or at different points) that may be
                   specified in the regulations; or

              (ii) who is the holder of a licence in respect of a customs
                   aerodrome,

       (a) to provide to the authorities that may be specified in the
            regulations any information relating to the use of aircraft
            for the purpose of the person’s business and to the persons
            employed in connection with that use, or (as the case may
            be) relating to the use of the aerodrome and to the persons
            employed in aircraft arriving at the aerodrome or departing
            therefrom, that may be prescribed by the regulations;

       (b) requiring the owner, or the pilot or other person in charge,
            of any aircraft arriving at, or departing from, any customs
            aerodrome to provide to the holder of the licence in respect
            of that aerodrome any information that may be necessary to
            enable the holder of the licence to comply with any of the
            provisions of the regulations that relate to the holder of the
            licence;

       (c) prescribing the times at which, and the form and manner in
            which, any information required under the regulations is to
            be provided,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
85  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

except that a person carrying on such a business as is mentioned in
paragraph (a)(i) is not required to provide information relating to the
use of aircraft on journeys wholly outside Singapore, or relating to
persons exclusively employed outside Singapore, unless the person
carrying on the business is either a citizen of Singapore or of a
Commonwealth country or a body corporate incorporated under the
law of Singapore.

 (2) Regulations made under this section may provide for imposing
on any person who contravenes any provision of the regulations such
penalties (not exceeding a fine of $500 and a further fine of $100 for
every day during which the contravention continues after conviction)
as may be specified in the regulations.

 (3) Any information with respect to any particular undertaking
which has been obtained by virtue of regulations made under this
section must not, without the consent of the person carrying on that
undertaking, be disclosed otherwise than in connection with the
execution of such regulations, and if any person discloses any such
information in contravention of this subsection, the person shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one
year or to both.

 (4) Nothing in subsection (3) applies to the disclosure of any
information for the purposes of any legal proceedings which may be
taken by virtue of this subsection or of regulations made under this
section, or for the purpose of any report of those proceedings, but,
save as aforesaid, the restriction imposed by this subsection, in
relation to any legal proceedings (including arbitrations), extends so
as to prohibit and prevent any person who is in possession of any such
information so obtained from disclosing, and from being required by
any court or arbitrator to disclose that information (whether as a
witness or otherwise) except with the consent of the person carrying
on the undertaking to which the information relates.

 (5) In this section, “customs aerodrome” means an aerodrome for
the time being appointed as a place of landing and departure of
aircraft for the purposes of any written law relating to customs.

                                                                               [15

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  86

Licensing of air transport and commercial flying

62.—(1) The Minister may make regulations —

(a) to secure that aircraft must not be used in Singapore by any
     person —

          (i) for flying, while carrying passengers or goods for
              hire or reward, on any journeys or classes of journeys
              (whether beginning and ending at the same point or
              at different points) that may be specified in the
              regulations; or

          (ii) for such flying undertaken for the purpose of any
               trade or business as may be so specified,

(a) except under the authority of, and in accordance with, a
     licence or permit granted by any licensing authority that is
     specified in the regulations;

(b) providing that an eligibility certificate or document is
     required to be obtained before a licence or permit may be
     granted or continue to be held under the regulations;

          (c) providing for applications for an eligibility certificate or
              document mentioned in paragraph (b) and for the
              circumstances in which the certificate or document may
              or must be granted, refused, revoked or suspended by such
              licensing authority as is specified in the regulations;

(d) as to the circumstances in which a licence or permit under
     the regulations may or must be granted, refused, revoked or
     suspended, and in particular as to the matters to which the
     licensing authority specified in the regulations is to have
     regard in deciding whether to grant or refuse the licence or
     permit;

          (e) as to appeals to the Minister against decisions by any
              licensing authority under the regulations with regard to any
              eligibility certificate or document mentioned in
              paragraph (b) or any licence or permit;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
87  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

    (f) requiring prior consent or approval from any licensing
        authority that is specified in the regulations to the transfer
        or assignment of any licence or permit;

    (g) as to the conditions which may be attached to an eligibility
         certificate or document mentioned in paragraph (b), or a
         licence or permit (including conditions as to the fares,
         freight or other charges to be charged by the holder of the
         licence or permit), and for securing compliance with any
         conditions so attached;

    (h) as to the information to be provided by an applicant for, or
         the holder of, an eligibility certificate or document
         mentioned in paragraph (b), or a licence or permit to any
         authorities that may be specified in the regulations;

    (i) prescribing the fees to be paid in respect of the application
        for and the grant of any eligibility certificate or document
        mentioned in paragraph (b), or a licence or permit under
        the regulations,

and such regulations may make different provision as respects
different classes of aircraft and different classes of eligibility
certificates or documents, licences and permits.

 (2) Regulations made under this section may, for the purpose of
securing compliance with those regulations, provide for the
imposition of the following penalties:

    (a) in the case of a first offence under the regulations, a fine
         not exceeding $5,000 or imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 3 months or both; and

    (b) in the case of a second or subsequent offence under the
         regulations, a fine not exceeding $50,000 or imprisonment
         for a term not exceeding 2 years or both.
                                                                           [16

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  88

                             PART 2B

          AVIATION SECURITY

Interpretation of this Part

63.—(1) In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

“act of unlawful interference” means the doing or attempting to
   do anything such as to jeopardise the safety of civil aviation
   and air transport, and includes any of the following:

          (a) unlawful taking control of an aircraft by force, or
               threat of force, or any other form of intimidation or
               by any trick or false pretence;

          (b) destroying an aircraft that is in service;

          (c) hostage-taking on board an aircraft or at an airport;

          (d) forcible intrusion on board an aircraft, at an airport or
               on the premises of an aeronautical facility that puts
               the safety of the aircraft, or any person on board or
               outside the aircraft, at risk;

          (e) introducing on board an aircraft or at an airport a
              weapon or hazardous device or material intended for
              criminal purposes;

          (f) use of an aircraft in service for the purpose of causing
              death, serious bodily injury or serious damage to
              property or the environment;

          (g) putting the safety of an aircraft in flight or on the
               ground, or of passengers, crew, ground personnel or
               the general public, at an airport or on the premises of
               a civil aviation facility at risk by communicating
               false or misleading information;

“aviation industry participant” means —

          (a) an airport operator who holds an airport licence under
               the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore Act 2009
               or who is exempted from holding such a licence
               under section 43 of that Act;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
89  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) an aircraft operator;

    (c) a consignor;

    (d) an air cargo agent;

    (e) the Authority;

    (f) a person who occupies or controls an area of an
        airport (whether under a lease, sublease or other
        arrangement); or

    (g) a contractor who provides services to any person
         mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (f);

    “aviation security incident” means a threatened act of unlawful
       interference or an act of unlawful interference;

    “in service”, in relation to an aircraft, includes the period the
       aircraft is in flight;

    “passenger” includes an intending passenger;

    “security programme”, in relation to an aviation industry
       participant, means a programme prepared in accordance
       with the aviation security regulations, and containing matters
       prescribed in those regulations to show that the aviation
       industry participant —

    (a) is aware of the participant’s general responsibility to
         contribute to the maintenance of aviation security;

    (b) has developed an integrated, responsible and
         proactive approach to managing aviation security;

    (c) is aware of, and has the capacity to meet, the specific
        obligations imposed on the participant under this
        Part; and

              (d) has taken into account relevant features of the
                   participant’s operation in developing activities and
                   strategies for managing aviation security.

                                                                                                [16/2015; 18/2018]

 (2) For the purposes of this Part, a reference to an aviation industry
participant does not include a reference to —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  90

(a) the Singapore Police Force;

(b) the Singapore Civil Defence Force; and

          (c) the Singapore Armed Forces.
                                                                                 [17

National Civil Aviation Security Authority

 64.—(1) The Minister must appoint a public officer or a statutory
authority established by any public Act for a public purpose as the
National Civil Aviation Security Authority.

 (2) The National Civil Aviation Security Authority is, in
consultation with the Authority and the National Civil Aviation
Security Committee, responsible for the development,
implementation and maintenance of the National Civil Aviation
Security Programme or NCASP in Singapore to safeguard civil
aviation operations against acts of unlawful interference.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (2), the functions of the National
Civil Aviation Security Authority are —

       (a) to define and allocate tasks and coordinate activities
            between aviation industry participants, persons engaged
            in civil aviation related activities, the departments,
            agencies and organisations of Singapore and other
            entities concerned with or responsible for the
            implementation of various aspects of the NCASP;

       (b) to require any aviation industry participants that are
            prescribed by any aviation security regulations to have
            an aviation security programme to develop, and comply
            with, aviation security programmes in accordance with the
            requirements in those regulations and to review and
            approve these aviation security programmes;

       (c) to ensure the development and implementation of a
            programme known as the National Civil Aviation
            Security Training Programme for the training of
            personnel of all entities involved with or responsible for
            the implementation of various aspects of the NCASP;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
91  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

    (d) to develop, implement and maintain a programme known
         as the National Civil Aviation Security Quality Control
         Programme to determine compliance with and validate the
         effectiveness of the NCASP;

    (e) to advise and make recommendations to the Minister on
        matters relating to civil aviation security, including the
        implementation of international conventions entered into
        by or on behalf of Singapore and any revision to any
        written law arising from that implementation; and

    (f) to carry out any other functions relating to aviation security
        that may be prescribed under any aviation security
        regulations.

 (4) Notice of every appointment under subsection (1) must be
published in the Gazette.

 (5) The National Civil Aviation Security Authority may, in writing,
and subject to any conditions or restrictions that it thinks fit, delegate
all or any of its powers under this Part or any aviation security
regulations to any aviation security inspector or public officer, or to
any officer or employee of the National Civil Aviation Security
Authority who carries on activities that relate to national security,
except the power of delegation conferred by this section.

                                                                                                           [34/2019]

 (6) Any power delegated under subsection (5) to an aviation
security inspector, a public officer or an officer or employee of the
National Civil Aviation Security Authority may be performed or
exercised by the inspector, officer or employee to whom the power
has been delegated in the name and on behalf of the National Civil
Aviation Security Authority.

                                                                                                           [34/2019]

 (7) No delegation under this section prevents the performance or
exercise of any function, duty or power by the National Civil Aviation
Security Authority.

 (8) The National Civil Aviation Security Authority must appoint in
writing —

    (a) such number of police officers; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  92

(b) such other individuals (whether or not public officers) each
     with suitable qualifications and experience to properly
     exercise the powers of an aviation security inspector,

to be aviation security inspectors for the purposes of this Part.

 (9) The National Civil Aviation Security Authority must issue to
each aviation security inspector an identification card, which must be
carried at all times by the aviation security inspector when exercising
powers under any provision in this Part or any aviation security
regulations.

                                                                             [17A

National Civil Aviation Security Committee

 65.—(1) There must also be a National Civil Aviation Security
Committee, comprising such persons as the Minister may appoint,
whose function is —

       (a) to advise the National Civil Aviation Security Authority on
            civil aviation security policies, strategic matters and
            decisions, and the measures necessary to meet threats to
            civil aviation;

       (b) to continually review such measures and make
            recommendations for changes in response to information
            on new threats, developments in aviation security
            technology and techniques and other relevant factors;

       (c) to coordinate aviation security measures among aviation
            industry participants, persons engaged in civil aviation
            related activities, and the departments, agencies and
            organisations of Singapore and other entities concerned
            with or responsible for the implementation of various
            aspects of the NCASP;

       (d) to promote security considerations in the design of new
            airports or alterations to existing facilities;

       (e) to recommend the promulgation of, and coordinate the
            implementation of changes in, national aviation security
            policies, in consultation with the National Civil Aviation
            Security Authority; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
93  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

    (f) to consider recommendations made by aviation industry
        participants and, where appropriate, recommend changes
        to the NCASP, airport security programmes or operator
        security programmes to the National Civil Aviation
        Security Authority.

 (2) If any member of the National Civil Aviation Security
Committee dies, resigns or is removed from office by the Minister,
the Minister may appoint another person to fill the vacancy, and the
person so appointed holds office for the remainder of the term for
which the vacating member was appointed.

 (3) Subject to the provisions of this Act or any aviation security
regulations, the National Civil Aviation Security Committee may
determine its own procedure.

 (4) The National Civil Aviation Security Committee may appoint,
from among its own members or other persons who are not members
of the National Civil Aviation Security Committee, any number of
subcommittees that it thinks fit consisting of its members or other
persons, or both its members and other persons, for purposes which,
in the opinion of the National Civil Aviation Security Committee,
would be better regulated and managed by means of such
subcommittees.

                                                                             [17B

Powers of NCASA, aviation security inspectors, etc.

 66.—(1) The National Civil Aviation Security Authority, any police
officer authorised by the NCASA and any aviation security inspector
may exercise the powers specified in subsection (2), for all or any of
the following purposes:

       (a) determining whether a person is complying with any
            provision of or requirement under this Part or any aviation
            security regulations;

       (b) investigating a possible contravention of any provision of
            or requirement under this Part or any aviation security
            regulations;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  94

          (c) determining whether a security directive should be issued
              to any person mentioned in section 67(1).

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the National Civil Aviation
Security Authority, any police officer authorised by the NCASA and
any aviation security inspector may —

(a) enter and inspect —

          (i) any part of an airport;

          (ii) any area, building (other than a residence) or vehicle
               under the control of an aviation industry participant
               or person mentioned in section 67(1)(b); and

          (iii) if an aviation industry participant or a person
                mentioned in section 67(1)(b) operates from a
                residence or a part of a residence, the residence or
                the part of the residence from which the participant
                or person (as the case may be) operates;

(b) inspect equipment in a place or vehicle mentioned in
     paragraph (a);

          (c) observe the operating procedures of an aviation industry
              participant or person mentioned in section 67(1)(b);

(d) discuss those procedures mentioned in paragraph (c) with
     an employee of the aviation industry participant or person
     mentioned in section 67(1)(b) or with another aviation
     industry participant or such person;

          (e) inspect, photograph or copy a document or record made or
              kept by an aviation industry participant or person
              mentioned in section 67(1)(b);

          (f) operate equipment at a place mentioned in paragraph (a)
              for the purposes of gaining access to a document or record
              made or kept by an aviation industry participant or person
              mentioned in section 67(1)(b);

(g) enter and inspect an aircraft at an airport;

(h) inspect equipment in the aircraft mentioned in
     paragraph (g);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
95  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

    (i) observe the operating procedures for the aircraft (whether
        carried out by the crew or some other person);

    (j) discuss those procedures mentioned in paragraph (i) with a
        person carrying them out or with another aviation industry
        participant or person mentioned in section 67(1)(b); and

    (k) inspect, photograph or copy a document or record held in
        the aircraft that relates to a passenger or an item of cargo.

 (3) The National Civil Aviation Security Authority, any police
officer authorised by the NCASA and any aviation security inspector
may exercise a power specified in subsection (2) —

    (a) if the power is exercised within the boundaries of an
         airport — at any time and without notice;

    (b) at any time and without notice, if the power is exercised
         outside the boundaries of an airport and is a power
         specified —

    (i) in subsection (2)(a)(ii), (c) or (d);

    (ii) in subsection (2)(e) to the extent that it relates to
         subsection (2)(a) or (d); or

    (iii) in subsection (2)(f) to the extent that it relates to
          subsection (2)(a)(iii); and

    (c) otherwise — after giving the aviation industry participant
        concerned reasonable notice.

 (4) An auxiliary police officer who is authorised in writing by the
National Civil Aviation Security Authority may assist the NCASA, a
police officer authorised by the NCASA or an aviation security
inspector exercising in Singapore any power under any provision in
this Part or any aviation security regulations.

                                                                             [17C

Security directives

 67.—(1) The National Civil Aviation Security Authority may, in
writing (called in this Act a security directive), require any of the
following persons to carry out, within the time delimited by the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  96

security directive, any security measures that the NCASA may
specify in the security directive:

(a) any aviation industry participant or class of aviation
     industry participants;

(b) any person who is not an aviation industry participant, or
     any class of persons who are not aviation industry
     participants —

          (i) who operate, maintain, or service, or do any other act
              in respect of any aircraft, aeronautical product,
              aviation‑related service, air traffic service, or
              aeronautical procedure (whether or not at an
              airport); or

          (ii) who have access to the airside, or to a protected area
               or protected place within an airport, for the purposes
               of any business carried on or service provided by the
               person or persons.

 (2) The National Civil Aviation Security Authority may, at any
time, vary or rescind a security directive given under subsection (1),
and that security directive has effect until it is so varied or rescinded,
or rescinded and replaced by another security directive.

(3) If —

(a) a security directive is given to a person, or to the class of
     persons to which the person belongs, under subsection (1);

(b) the security directive is in force; and

          (c) the person fails to comply or do anything required of the
              person by the security directive,

that person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

 (4) Subsection (3) does not apply if the person has a reasonable
excuse, the burden of proof of which lies with the person.

 (5) Despite subsection (1), a security directive need not be in
writing in cases of extreme urgency, in order to respond rapidly —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
97  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

    (a) to any specific aviation security incident requiring
         immediate action or additional security measures; or

    (b) to a change in the nature of an existing general threat of an
         act of unlawful interference, requiring immediate action or
         additional security measures,

and in such case, the National Civil Aviation Security Authority may
issue a verbal security directive to any person, which must be
confirmed in writing as soon as practicable thereafter.

(6) In this section, “security measure” includes —

    (a) any measure, equipment and procedures to carry out
         screening or rescreening and clearing of —

    (i) any person boarding an aircraft; or

    (ii) any baggage, cargo or other thing to be carried on an
         aircraft;

    (b) passenger check-in and boarding procedures, including
         procedures for dealing with —

    (i) diplomats and other special passengers, their
        diplomatic bags and baggage;

    (ii) passengers with reduced mobility or a medical
         condition;

    (iii) transit passengers, passengers in custody and suspect
          behaviour in passengers; and

    (iv) anomalies in passenger reconciliation that may arise
         during check-in or boarding;

    (c) any security measures and procedures to be used within an
        airport, including measures —

    (i) to control access at the airport and maintain the
        integrity of access control systems;

    (ii) to deter and detect unauthorised access into the
         airside area by people, aircraft, vehicles or things;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  98

          (iii) to deter and detect unauthorised access into the
                airside security zone by people, aircraft, vehicles or
                things;

          (iv) to deter and detect unauthorised access into a
               landside security zone by people, vehicles or things;

          (v) to assess, identify and respond to unknown
               substances;

          (vi) to investigate, secure, and remove unattended or
               suspect vehicles, aircraft or things, including
               baggage and cargo; and

          (vii) to ensure the security of passwords, keys and key
                lists, electronic access cards and other security
                privileges;

(d) any measure to deter unauthorised possession of firearms,
     weapons and other prohibited items in an airport or
     aircraft, including procedures —

          (i) for dealing with surrendered firearms, other weapons
              and prohibited items;

          (ii) for handling and movement of firearms and other
               weapons; and

          (iii) for using firearms and other weapons in the airside
                area or landside security zones;

          (e) any measure and procedures for responding to and
              investigating aviation security incidents and threats and
              breaches of aviation security, including measures by an
              aircraft operator or the pilot-in-command of an aircraft in
              Singapore —

          (i) to hold the aircraft in a particular position or within a
              particular area until specified actions are taken or
              until a specified event occurs;

          (ii) to ensure that the aircraft leaves a particular place or
               a particular area;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
99  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

    (iii) to ensure that the aircraft lands at a particular place or
          within a particular area; or

    (iv) to ensure that the aircraft lands outside of a particular
         area;

    (f) any measure and procedures —

    (i) for reporting aviation security incidents or security
        breaches, including occurrences that threaten the
        security of the airport or any aircraft in the airport;

    (ii) for evacuation and emergency management in case
         of an aviation security incident, security threat or
         breach of security, including an aircraft hijacking, a
         bomb threat or a failure of critical security
         equipment; or

    (iii) for responding to any security directive verbally
          given under subsection (5), including procedures to
          communicate the directive within the airport;

    (g) any measure and procedures to undertake reasonable
         searches of —

    (i) any person boarding an aircraft;

    (ii) any thing to be carried on an aircraft;

    (iii) any aircraft or class of aircraft, or any aerodrome or
          class of aerodromes or any navigation installation or
          class of navigation installations specified in a
          security directive; or

    (iv) any unattended item, substance, or vehicle in an
         aerodrome or aircraft within an aerodrome;

    (h) any measure to seize any item or substance specified in a
         security directive if the person given the security directive
         (or the person’s agent) has reasonable grounds to believe
         that there is no lawful authority or reasonable excuse for
         the item or substance to be carried on an aircraft; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  100

          (i) any measure by an aircraft operator or the
              pilot‑in‑command of an aircraft in Singapore and that is
              not in flight —

          (i) to hold the aircraft in a particular position or within a
              particular area until specified actions are taken or
              until a specified event occurs;

          (ii) to take particular actions, or ensure that particular
               actions are taken, on or in relation to an aircraft;

          (iii) to take particular actions, or ensure that particular
                actions are taken, in relation to a person or thing on,
                or to be carried by, the aircraft; or

          (iv) to allow any police officer, any aviation security
               inspector or any other person authorised by the
               NCASA to inspect the aircraft.
                                                                         [17D

Requirement to have security programme

 68.—(1) An aviation industry participant shall be guilty of an
offence if —

       (a) the aviation industry participant is required by any aviation
            security regulations to have a security programme; and

       (b) there is not such a programme in force for that aviation
            industry participant.

 (2) An aviation industry participant shall be guilty of an offence
if —

       (a) the aviation industry participant is required by any aviation
            security regulations to have a security programme, and
            there is such a programme in force for that aviation
            industry participant; but

       (b) the aviation industry participant fails to comply with that
            programme.

 (3) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to an aviation industry
participant who has a reasonable excuse.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
101  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

 (4) An aviation industry participant who is guilty of an offence
under subsection (1) or (2) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
5 years or to both.

 (5) For the purposes of this Part, if the National Civil Aviation
Security Authority approves a security programme in respect of an
aviation industry participant, the programme comes into force for that
participant at the time specified in the notice of approval.

                                                                             [17E

Aviation security regulations

 69.—(1) In the interests of safety or security within the civil
aviation system, the Minister may make regulations in the Gazette
prescribing matters necessary or convenient to be prescribed for
carrying out or giving effect to this Part, including but not limited to
all or any of the following matters:

       (a) the matters to be contained in each security programme,
            each security programme for a particular kind of aviation
            industry participant, or each security programme for a
            particular class of a particular kind of aviation industry
            participant;

       (b) the requirements with respect to security programmes,
            including —

               (i) requiring aviation industry participants to prepare or
                   alter such programmes;

              (ii) requiring the approval by the National Civil Aviation
                   Security Authority of programmes and of alterations
                   of them;

             (iii) empowering the National Civil Aviation Security
                   Authority to prepare and alter such programmes; and

             (iv) requiring specified persons in addition to aviation
                   industry participants to comply with such security
                   programmes as in force at a particular time or from
                   time to time;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  102

          (c) the requirements relating to —

          (i) the management and control of passengers
              (including persons in custody) on board an aircraft;

          (ii) the security features on an aircraft;

          (iii) pre-flight checks of aircraft cabins and other parts of
                an aircraft;

          (iv) procedures to be used and measures to be taken in
               relation to baggage that is loaded, or is intended to be
               loaded, onto a prescribed aircraft;

          (v) unattended aircraft; or

          (vi) such other matters for the purposes of safeguarding
               against acts of unlawful interference;

(d) the prevention of interference with aerodromes and other
     aviation-related facilities;

          (e) the control of access to different parts of an aerodrome and
              other aviation-related facility, including —

          (i) conditions of entry, the issue and use of security
              passes and other identification systems;

          (ii) the provision of lighting, fencing and storage
               facilities in the different parts of aerodromes and
               other aviation‑related facilities;

          (iii) requirements for the approval of building works
                within, or adjacent to, the different parts of
                aerodromes or other aviation-related facilities;

          (iv) the screening of people, vehicles or goods (other than
               cargo) for entry to different parts of aerodromes or
               other aviation‑related facilities;

          (v) requirements relating to the entry of cargo to the
               different parts of aerodromes or other
               aviation‑related facilities;

          (vi) the security checking (including background
               checking) of persons who have access to the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
103  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

     different parts of aerodromes or other
     aviation‑related facilities;

     (vii) the movement, management or operation of aircraft
           (including unattended aircraft), vehicles and other
           machinery in the different parts of aerodromes or
           other aviation‑related facilities; and

     (viii) the management of people and goods (including the
            management of unaccompanied, unidentified or
            suspicious goods) in the different parts of
            aerodromes or other aviation‑related facilities and
            the sale or disposal of vehicles or goods abandoned
            therein;

     (f) the control of things likely to be hazardous to aviation
         security, including but not limited to any of the following:

     (i) the safe carriage of firearms and other dangerous or
         hazardous goods or substances by air;

     (ii) the construction, use, or operation of anything likely
          to be hazardous to aviation security;

     (g) the requirements for or in relation to the giving of security
          directives under section 67;

     (h) the fees to be paid in respect of the issue, validation or
          renewal of any licence, registration or other document
          required by the regulations and in respect of any other
          matters in respect of which it appears to the Minister to be
          expedient for the purpose of the regulations to charge fees.

 (2) The regulations made under this section may provide that any
contravention of any provision of the regulations shall be an offence
punishable with a fine not exceeding $100,000 or with imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 5 years or with both.

 (3) To avoid doubt, an aviation industry participant may at any one
time be 2 or more of the following:

     (a) an airport operator who holds an airport licence under the
          Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore Act 2009 or who is

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.                    Air Navigation Act 1966                104

          exempted from holding such a licence under section 43 of
          that Act;

(b) an aircraft operator;

          (c) a consignor;

(d) an air cargo agent;

          (e) a person who occupies or controls an area of an airport
              (whether under a lease, sublease or other arrangement);

          (f) the Authority;

(g) a contractor who provides services to any person
     mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (f),

and this Part and the aviation security regulations may prescribe
requirements and duties or liabilities on the aviation industry
participant accordingly, and may at any one time impose the same
duty or liability on 2 or more aviation industry participants, whether
in the same capacity or in different capacities.

                                                                                                           [18/2018]

 (4) All aviation security regulations made under this section must
be presented to Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the
Gazette.

 (5) The provisions of any order made by the Minister before 1 April
2014 in relation to aviation security and in force immediately before
that date continue in force as if made under this Part, and may from
time to time be amended or revoked under this section.

                                                                             [17F

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

                                    PART 3

                  CONTROL OF OBSTRUCTIONS IN
                     VICINITY OF AERODROMES

Indication of presence of obstructions near aerodromes

 70.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), if the Authority is satisfied, with
respect to any structure in the vicinity of an aerodrome to which this
section applies, that, in order to avoid danger to aircraft flying in that

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
105  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

vicinity in darkness or conditions of poor visibility, provision ought
to be made (whether by lighting or otherwise) for giving to the
aircraft warning of the presence of that structure, it may by order
authorise (subject to any conditions specified in the order) the
proprietor of the aerodrome, and any person acting under the
proprietor’s instructions —

     (a) to execute, install, maintain, operate, and, as occasion
          requires, repair and alter, any works and apparatus that
          may be necessary for enabling such warning to be given in
          the manner specified in the order; and

     (b) so far as may be necessary for exercising any of the powers
          conferred by the order to enter upon and pass over (with or
          without vehicles) any land that may be specified in the
          order.

 (2) An order must not be made under subsection (1) in relation to
any structure if it appears to the Authority that there have been made,
and are being carried out, satisfactory arrangements for the giving of
such warning of the presence of the structure.

 (3) The Authority must, before making any order under
subsection (1), cause to be published, in any manner that it thinks
best for informing persons concerned, notice of the proposal to make
the order and of the place where copies of the draft order may be
obtained free of charge, and take into consideration any
representations with respect to the order which may, within the
period not being less than 2 months after the publication of the notice
specified in the notice, be made to the Authority by any person
appearing to the Authority to have an interest in any land which
would be affected by the order; and at the end of that period the order
may, subject to this section, be made with any modifications of the
original draft that the Authority thinks proper.

(4) Every order made under subsection (1) must provide —

     (a) that, except in a case of emergency, no works may be
          executed on any land pursuant to the order, unless, at least
          14 days previously, the proprietor of the aerodrome to
          which the order relates has served in the manner prescribed
          by the order on the occupier of that land, and on every other

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  106

          person known by the proprietor to have an interest in that
          land, a written notice containing the particulars of the
          nature of the proposed works, and the manner in which and
          the time at which it is proposed to execute them, that may
          be prescribed by or in accordance with the order;

(b) that if, within 14 days after service of such notice on any
     person having such an interest, the proprietor of the
     aerodrome receives a written intimation of objection on the
     part of that person to the proposals contained in the notice,
     being an intimation which specifies the grounds of
     objection, then, unless and except insofar as the
     objection is withdrawn, no steps are to be taken pursuant
     to the notice without the specific sanction of the Authority;
     and

          (c) for requiring the proprietor of the aerodrome to which the
              order relates to pay to any person having an interest in any
              land affected by the order any compensation for any
              damage or loss which that person may suffer in
              consequence of the order that may, in default of
              agreement, be determined from time to time by a single
              arbitrator appointed by the Chief Justice.

 (5) For the purposes of this section, any expense reasonably
incurred in connection with the lawful removal of any apparatus
installed pursuant to such an order, and so much of any expense
incurred in connection with the repair, alteration, demolition or
removal of any structure to which the order relates as is attributable to
the operation of the order is deemed to be loss or damage suffered in
consequence of the order.

 (6) The ownership of anything is not to be taken to be affected by
reason only that it is placed in, or affixed to, any land pursuant to such
an order; and, subject to subsection (8), so long as any such order in
respect of an aerodrome is in force, a person must not, except with the
consent of the proprietor of the aerodrome, wilfully interfere with any
works or things which to the knowledge of that person, are works or
things executed or placed in, on or over any land pursuant to the order.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
107  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

 (7) If any person contravenes any of the provisions of
subsection (6), the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (8) Nothing in this section operates, in relation to any structure, so
as to restrict the doing of any work for the purpose of repairing,
altering, demolishing or removing the structure if —

     (a) notice of the doing of that work is given as soon as possible
          to the proprietor of the aerodrome; and

     (b) the giving of warning of the presence of the structure in the
          manner provided by any order made under this section in
          force in relation thereto is not interrupted.

(9) In this section —

     (a) “aerodrome to which this section applies” means any
          premises which, by virtue of an order made under
          section 8, are for the time being licensed as an
          aerodrome for public use or any Government aerodrome;
          and

     (b) “proprietor of the aerodrome”, in relation to any premises
          used or appropriated for use as an aerodrome, means the
          airport licensee or exempt airport operator under the Civil
          Aviation Authority of Singapore Act 2009 for those
          premises, or, in the case of a Government aerodrome, the
          officer in charge of the aerodrome.
                                                                            [18

Savings

 71.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), this Part does not apply to
aircraft belonging to or exclusively employed in the service of the
Government or of the Singapore Armed Forces or of any visiting
force lawfully present in Singapore.

 (2) The Authority may, by order, apply to any aircraft mentioned in
subsection (1), with or without modification, any of the provisions of
this Part or of any subsidiary legislation made under this Part.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  108

 (3) Nothing in this Part, or in any subsidiary legislation made under
this Part, prejudices or affects the rights, powers or privileges of any
general or local lighthouse authority.

                                                                               [19

Power to declare an area a controlled area

 72. Whenever it appears to the Authority that it is or is likely to
become necessary for the safety of air navigation in the vicinity of an
aerodrome or for securing the efficient operation of any aid to air
navigation, whether situated at or in the vicinity of an aerodrome or
elsewhere that any area should be cleared or kept clear of
obstructions, it may declare the area to be a controlled area for the
purposes of this Part and must define the boundaries of that area.

                                                                               [20

Power to prohibit or regulate erection of structures and
planting trees in controlled area

 73. The Authority may, by order, prohibit absolutely or
conditionally or regulate the erection of any structure above a
height specified in the order, or the planting of any tree or other high
growing vegetation, within a controlled area or any part of that area.

                                                                               [21

Notice to remove or alter structure, trees and other vegetation
in controlled area

 74.—(1) The Authority, or any officer authorised by the Authority
in that behalf, may, by written notice, require the owner or occupier of
any land subject to any order made under section 73, within the time
(not being less than one month from the date of the service of such
notice upon the person concerned) that may be fixed by the notice —

       (a) to remove or reduce in height any structure on the land,
            which is above the height specified in the order, whether
            the structure was erected before or after the making of the
            order, or any tree or other high growing vegetation, either
            planted in contravention of the order, or likely, in the
            opinion of the Authority or the officer to cause an

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
109  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

     obstruction to aircraft or to hinder the efficient operation of
     any aid to air navigation;

     (b) to take such steps in regard to, or to effect such alterations
          to, any structure, tree or other vegetation on any land
          within a controlled area, or any part of the area, as may be
          necessary to comply with any conditions imposed by any
          order made under section 73 applicable to the structure,
          tree or vegetation or in the case of any structure erected or
          tree or vegetation existing before the making of the order,
          which would have been applicable to the structure, tree or
          other vegetation if it had been erected or planted after the
          making of the order.

 (2) If default is made in complying with the provisions of the notice
within the time fixed by the notice, any officer authorised by the
Authority either generally or specially in that behalf may enter upon
the land and cause such action to be taken as is required by the notice
and may recover the cost of and all expenses incurred in doing any
necessary work from the person in default.

                                                                               [22

Power of entry on land

 75.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), any officer authorised in that
behalf by the Authority and any person employed in that behalf under
the supervision of that officer may enter upon, survey and take levels
of any controlled area and may do all other acts necessary for the
survey and for the purpose of marking out the boundaries of the area
or any part of that area.

 (2) The officer or person must not enter into any building or
enclosed garden or compound attached to any building without the
occupier’s consent unless he or she has previously given the occupier
at least 3 clear days’ written notice of his or her intention to do so.

                                                                               [23

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  110

Damage caused by reduction or removal of structure or
valuable tree or plant

 76. When any structure or valuable tree or plant is reduced in height
or removed or any expense is reasonably incurred in compliance with
any order or the conditions of any order, the owner or occupier of the
land must, unless the structure was erected or the tree or plant was
planted in contravention of any order or of the conditions imposed by
such order, receive compensation to the extent to which the owner or
occupier has suffered damage by reason of such reduction or removal
or has incurred such expense.

                                                                               [24

Damage caused by entry on land under section 75

 77. Where any damage is done to property in the exercise or
purported exercise of any power conferred by section 75, the owner
or occupier must receive compensation to the extent to which the
owner or occupier has suffered the damage.

                                                                               [25

Compensation for loss of value of land

 78. Where any land in a controlled area is affected by any order
made under section 73 prohibiting or regulating the erection of any
structure or the planting of any tree or vegetation, the owner or
occupier of the land is entitled to compensation to the extent (if any)
that the value of the owner’s or occupier’s land or the owner’s or
occupier’s interest in the land is shown to have been, by reason of the
provisions of the order, depreciated in relation to the current ordinary
market value of neighbouring land not included in that order.

                                                                               [26

Procedure for settling claims for compensation under
section 76, 77 or 78

 79. Where any person is entitled to any compensation by virtue of
section 76, 77 or 78, the amount of the compensation must be
determined by agreement or, in default of agreement, by a single
arbitrator appointed by the Chief Justice.

                                                                               [27

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
111  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

     PART 3A

     MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 80.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

     (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
          an officer; or

     (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

     (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
          a partner; or

     (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

     (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
          an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
          its governing body; or

     (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such an
          officer or member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.     Air Navigation Act 1966                               112

(5) In this section —

“body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership which
   has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Limited
   Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

“officer” —

          (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
               partner, member of the committee of management,
               chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
               officer of the body corporate and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity; or

          (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
               than a partnership), means the president, the
               secretary, or any member of the committee of the
               unincorporated association, or any person holding a
               position analogous to that of president, secretary or
               member of such a committee and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (6) The Minister may make regulations to provide for the
application of any provision of this section, with any modifications
that the Minister considers appropriate, to any body corporate or
unincorporated association formed or recognised under the law of a
territory outside Singapore.

                                                                             [27A

Certain offences and penalty

 81.—(1) Any person who does any act in contravention of, or
without reasonable excuse fails to comply with the terms of, any
order or notice made or issued under section 73 or 74 shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$1,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

 (2) Any person who wilfully obstructs any person in the exercise of
any of the powers conferred by this Part or by any subsidiary

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
113  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

legislation made under this Part shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

                                                                               [28

Compounding of offences

 82.—(1) The relevant person may, in his or her discretion,
compound any offence under this Act or any of its subsidiary
legislation which is prescribed as a compoundable offence by
collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having committed
the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one-half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings may
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) The Minister may make rules to prescribe the offences which
may be compounded.

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid to the
Consolidated Fund.

 (5) In this section, “relevant person”, in relation to an offence that is
prescribed as compoundable, means —

       (a) for an offence under Part 2A or 2B or under any subsidiary
            legislation made for the purpose of either Part, any public
            officer authorised by the Minister for the purpose of this
            section; and

       (b) for all other offences, the Director-General of Civil
            Aviation, or any officer of the Authority authorised by
            the Director‑General of Civil Aviation for the purpose of
            this section.
                                                                             [28A

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  114

Power to make regulations

 83. The Minister may make regulations generally for carrying into
effect the provisions of this Part.

                                                                               [29

Fees and charges

 84.—(1) Where power is conferred by this Act to make subsidiary
legislation prescribing fees or charges, the subsidiary legislation
may —

       (a) prescribe or fix different rates of fees and charges in
            respect of different classes of persons, aerodromes,
            aircraft, aeronautical products, aviation-related services,
            air traffic services, or aeronautical procedures, or on the
            basis of different times of use, or on any other differential
            basis;

       (b) specify the persons by whom and to whom any fees or
            charges are payable;

       (c) prescribe a penalty for late payment of any fee or charge, or
            any additional fees or charges for work or services carried
            out outside normal working hours or on public holidays;

       (d) provide for the refund or waiver of any fee or charge in
            whole or in part, in any specified case or class of cases;

       (e) provide for the granting of a rebate of such fees or charges
            to any person who is liable to pay them —

               (i) based on the quantity of services used by the person
                   liable to pay the fees or charges; and

              (ii) be offered on an equal percentage basis to any other
                   person using a similar quantity of such services; and

        (f) require returns to be made by persons by whom any fees or
            charges are payable, and prescribe conditions relating to
            the making of such returns.

 (2) Where any fee or charge that is payable under this Act or any of
its subsidiary legislation for an aviation safety instrument is not paid
by the date prescribed or fixed under the Act or subsidiary legislation

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
115  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

for payment of that fee or charge, the Authority may suspend the
aviation safety instrument to which the unpaid fee or charge relates.

                                                                             [29A

Financial penalties payable to Consolidated Fund

 85.—(1) Any financial penalty imposed on any person by the
Authority under this Act or any subsidiary legislation made under this
Act —

       (a) must be collected, and may be sued for and recovered by
            the Authority;

       (b) is deemed to be a debt due to the Government for the
            purposes of section 397 of the Insolvency, Restructuring
            and Dissolution Act 2018 and section 10 of the
            Government Proceedings Act 1956; and

       (c) must be paid to the Consolidated Fund upon such
            collection or recovery,

and where the person is the holder of an aviation safety instrument, or
a licence or permit, that person’s liability to pay is not affected by that
person’s aviation safety instrument, licence or permit ceasing, for any
reason, to be in force.

                                                                                                           [40/2018]

 (2) The members, officers and employees of the Authority are, in
relation to their administration, assessment, collection and
enforcement of payment of —

       (a) the composition sums imposed under section 82; or

       (b) the financial penalties due and payable by any person
            under this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation,

deemed to be public officers for the purposes of the Financial
Procedure Act 1966, and section 20 of that Act applies to these
members, officers and employees of the Authority even though they
are not or were not in the employment of the Government.

                                                                             [29B

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.           Air Navigation Act 1966                         116

False information

86.—(1) A person commits an offence who —

(a) by any means, provides to the Authority or any other
     person information relevant to the Authority’s or the
     person’s exercise of powers under this Act, or under any of
     its subsidiary legislation, knowing the information to be
     false; or

(b) being an applicant for any aviation safety instrument or
     other licence or permit, fails, without reasonable excuse, to
     provide to the Authority or other person information
     known to that applicant which is relevant to the Authority’s
     or other person’s exercise of powers under this Act, or
     under any of its subsidiary legislation.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

                                                                             [29C

Obstructing performance of official duties

 87.—(1) A person who refuses to give access to, or obstructs,
hinders or delays —

       (a) the Director-General of Civil Aviation, any safety
            inspector or any officer or employee of the Authority
            authorised to act for or assist the Authority;

       (b) the National Civil Aviation Security Authority, any police
            officer authorised to act for or assist the NCASA or any
            aviation security inspector; or

                                                                               [Act 36 of 2018 wef 01/01/2024]

       (c) [Deleted by Act 36 of 2018 wef 01/01/2024]

       (d) an authorised person within the meaning of section 90,

in the discharge of his, her or its duties under this Act or any
subsidiary legislation made under this Act shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
117  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

                                                                               [Act 36 of 2018 wef 01/01/2024]

 (2) It is not an offence under subsection (1) for any person to refuse
to comply with any request, demand or order made or given by any
safety inspector or aviation security inspector who fails to declare his
or her office and refuses to produce his or her identification card on
demand being made by that person.

                                                                             [29D

General exemption

 88. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person
or premises or any class of persons or premises from all or any of the
provisions of this Act or of its subsidiary legislation, subject to any
terms or conditions that may be specified in the order.

                                                                             [29E

Delegation of Minister’s powers

 89.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), the Minister may, either
generally or particularly, in writing delegate to the Authority or
any public officer in his or her Ministry any of the Minister’s
functions and powers under this Act or any of its subsidiary
legislation.

 (2) The Authority or a public officer mentioned in subsection (1)
may exercise any functions or powers so delegated to the Authority or
public officer (as the case may be) in the same manner and with the
same effect as if they had been conferred on the Authority or public
officer directly by this section and not by delegation, but subject to
any general or special directions given or conditions imposed by the
Minister.

 (3) Nothing in this section authorises delegating —

       (a) the power of delegation conferred by this section;

       (b) any power of the Minister to make subsidiary legislation
            under this Act; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  118

          (c) any power of the Minister to determine appeals from the
              decision of the Authority, the National Civil Aviation
              Security Authority or any licensing authority specified in
              the regulations made under section 62.

 (4) In this Act or any subsidiary legislation made under this Act,
any reference to the Minister determining an appeal includes a
reference to any Minister of State for his or her Ministry that is
designated by the Minister to hear, in his or her place, that appeal.

                                                                             [29F

Interception, etc., of unmanned aircraft

 90.—(1) Where an authorised person has reason to believe that an
unmanned aircraft is being operated in a manner —

       (a) that contravenes any provision of this Act or any aviation
            safety subsidiary legislation; or

       (b) that poses a serious and an imminent risk to safety of the
            public,

the authorised person may, subject to subsection (3), exercise all or
any of the powers in subsection (2) in relation to the unmanned
aircraft for either purpose:

       (c) preventing further contravention of any provision of this
            Act or any aviation safety subsidiary legislation;

       (d) preventing or stopping any actual or imminent occurrence
            that endangers or threatens to endanger the safety of the
            public.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the powers that may be
exercised by an authorised person in relation to an unmanned aircraft
are without warrant —

       (a) to direct any person whom the authorised person
            reasonably believes to be involved in the operation of
            the unmanned aircraft —

               (i) to end the flight of the unmanned aircraft, or land it,
                   safely in the fastest practicable way; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
119  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

     (ii) to fly the unmanned aircraft in the manner specified
          by the authorised person;

     (b) with such assistance and by such force as is necessary —

     (i) to assume control of an unmanned aircraft to fly the
         aircraft or to end the flight of the aircraft, or land it,
         safely in the fastest practicable way; or

     (ii) to end the flight of the unmanned aircraft in the
          fastest and safest practicable way; or

     (c) to seize the unmanned aircraft and any component of the
         unmanned aircraft system for that aircraft, or other thing,
         that the authorised person believes on reasonable
         grounds —

     (i) to be evidential material; or

              (ii) needs to be seized to prevent its concealment, loss or
                   destruction, or its use in committing, continuing or
                   repeating an offence under this Act or any aviation
                   safety subsidiary legislation.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (3) In authorising any person under subsection (1), the
Commissioner of Police, the Chief of Defence Force or the
Authority (as the case may be) may do all or any of the following:

     (a) limit the powers in subsection (2) that the authorised
          person may exercise;

     (b) limit when the authorised person may exercise his or her
          powers in subsection (2) or any of them;

     (c) limit where in Singapore the authorised person may
         exercise his or her powers in subsection (2) or any of them;

     (d) limit the circumstances in which the authorised person may
          exercise his or her powers in subsection (2) or any of them;

     (e) limit the offences in respect of which the authorised person
         may exercise his or her powers in subsection (2) or any of
         them.

                                                                                          [16/2015; 18/2018]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  120

 (4) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes any
direction under subsection (2)(a) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                                                [16/2015; 34/2019]

 (5) A Magistrate may, on an application by the Authority, make an
order authorising the Authority to destroy or otherwise dispose of any
thing seized under subsection (2)(c) by a safety inspector, if the
Magistrate is satisfied that —

(a) apart from this section, a safety inspector or the Authority
     is required to return the thing to a person; and

       (b) the safety inspector or the Authority cannot, despite
            making reasonable efforts, locate the person or the
            person has refused to take possession of that thing.

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (6) In this section, “evidential material” means any thing that is
relevant to proving a contravention of any provision of this Act or any
aviation safety subsidiary legislation (whether or not an offence).

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

 (7) In this section, an authorised person is —

(a) a police officer, or an auxiliary police officer, of or above
     the rank of sergeant and authorised by the Commissioner
     of Police to exercise powers under this section;

(b) a member of the Singapore Armed Forces who is
     authorised by the Chief of Defence Force to exercise
     powers under this section;

          (c) a safety inspector authorised by the Authority to exercise
              powers under this section; or

(d) an individual with the suitable qualifications and
     experience to properly exercise one or more of the
     powers in subsection (2) and authorised by the Authority
     to do so.

                                                                                     [16/2015; 18/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
121  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  2020 Ed.

 (8) To avoid doubt, nothing in this section derogates from the
provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 or section 201B of
the Singapore Armed Forces Act 1972.

                                                                             [29G

                                                                                                           [16/2015]

                                    PART 4

           RESTRICTION ON CLAIMS FOR DAMAGES
                          AND COMPENSATION

Restriction on claims for damages and compensation

 91. No damages or compensation in respect of any subsidiary
legislation made under this Act, or of any act done under this Act or
such subsidiary legislation, are recoverable —

       (a) save under and in accordance with the relevant provisions
            of this Act and of any of its subsidiary legislation; and

       (b) unless the claim is made within 3 months of the happening
            of the event which gave rise to the claim or within any
            further time that the Minister may, in any case or class of
            case, allow.
                                                                               [30

                                    PART 5

                          SAVING PROVISIONS

Saving provisions

 92.—(1) All subsidiary legislation that was in force immediately
before the commencement of this Act, continues in force until
revoked or replaced by subsidiary legislation made under those
provisions, or otherwise terminated, and is deemed to have been
made under this Act.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), any instrument that was in force
immediately before the commencement of this Act continues in force
until superseded, revoked or otherwise terminated and is deemed to
have been issued, served or granted under this Act, and this Act and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2020 Ed.  Air Navigation Act 1966                                  122

any of its subsidiary legislation applies to, or in relation to, the
instrument accordingly.

 (3) No such instrument that is expressed to continue in force for a
definite period is to continue in force after the expiration of that
period unless it is renewed in accordance with this Act and any of its
subsidiary legislation.

 (4) In this section “instrument” means any instruction or other
requirement, any notice and any certificate, licence, validation or
other authority.

                                                                               [31

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                      AIR NAVIGATION ACT 1966

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                            PART 1
                  ORDINANCE NO. 142
                 (AERIAL NAVIGATION)
                (1926 REVISED EDITION)

1. Ordinance XX of 1914 — The Aerial Navigation Ordinance 1914

Bill            : G.N. No. 61/1914

First Reading   : 27 February 1914

Second Reading  : 13 March 1914

Third Reading   : 27 March 1914

Commencement    : 4 April 1914

2. 1920 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 142 (Aerial Navigation)

Operation       : 28 November 1921

3. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 142 (Aerial Navigation)

Operation       : 1 August 1926

                                  PART 2
                 AIR NAVIGATION ORDINANCE
           (CHAPTER 109, 1955 REVISED EDITION)

4. Ordinance 46 of 1935 — Air Navigation Ordinance, 1935

Bill            : G.N No. 2122/1935

First Reading   : 26 August 1935

Second Reading  : 28 October 1935

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                      ii

Notice of Amendments  : 28 October 1935

Third Reading         : 28 October 1935

Commencement          : 18 November 1935

5. 1936 Revised Edition — Air Navigation Ordinance (Chapter 108)

Operation             : 1 September 1936

6. U.K. 1949, c. 67 — Civil Aviation Act, 1949

Commencement          : 24 November 1949

Application           : 1 July 1952 (sections 8, 9, 10, 11, 13,
                            14, 19, 27, 38, 40, 41, 49, 51, 53, 57,
                            58, 59, 60, 61, 62 and 63)

Note: This Act was extended in part to Singapore, with modifications, by the
        Colonial Civil Aviation (Application of Act) Order, 1952 (G.N. No.
        S 292/1952 (S.I. 868/1952)) on 1 July 1952.

7. G.N. No. S 292/1952 (S.I. 868/1952) — Colonial Civil Aviation
                                                      (Application of Act) Order, 1952

Commencement          : 1 July 1952

Note: This Order extended the Civil Aviation Act, 1949 (U.K. 1949, c. 67) in
        part to Singapore, with modifications.

8. M. Ordinance 84 of 1952 — Air Navigation Ordinance, 1952

Commencement          : 1 November 1953

Application           : 24 September 1964 (sections 3, 12 and
                            13(1))

Note: This Ordinance was extended in part to Singapore by the Air
        Navigation Ordinance, 1952 (Extension) Order, 1964 on
        24 September 1964.

9. Ordinance 37 of 1952 — Law Revision (Penalties Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1952

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with item 31 of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill                  : 32/1952

First Reading         : 16 September 1952

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 1952

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                      iii

Commencement          : 30 April 1955 (section 2 read with
                            item 31 of the Schedule)

10. 1955 Revised Edition — Air Navigation Ordinance (Chapter 109)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

11. Ordinance 31 of 1958 — Legislative Assembly (Presentation of
                                      Subsidiary Legislation) Ordinance, 1958

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 158/1958

First Reading         : 16 July 1958

Second Reading        : 13 August 1958

Notice of Amendments  : 10 September 1958

Third Reading         : 10 September 1958

Commencement          : 25 September 1958 (section 2 read
                            with the Schedule)

12. Ordinance 38 of 1959 — Laws of Singapore (Miscellaneous
                                      Amendments) Ordinance, 1959

     (Amendments made by section 7 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 215/1959

First Reading         : 3 March 1959

Second Reading        : 18 March 1959

Notice of Amendments  : 18 March 1959

Third Reading         : 18 March 1959

Commencement          : 3 June 1959 (section 7)

13. L.N. 296/1964 (G.N. Sp. No. S 205/1964) — Air Navigation Ordinance,
                                                              1952 (Extension) Order,
                                                              1964

Commencement          : 24 September 1964

Note: This Order extended the Federation of Malaya Air Navigation
        Ordinance, 1952 (M. Ordinance 84 of 1952) in part to Singapore.

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                      iv

                              PART 3
                AIR NAVIGATION ACT 1966

                 (2020 REVISED EDITION)

14. Act 11 of 1966 — Air Navigation Act, 1966

Bill                  : 10/1966

First Reading         : 23 February 1966

Second Reading        : 21 April 1966

Notice of Amendments  : 21 April 1966

Third Reading         : 21 April 1966

Commencement          : 13 May 1966

15. 1970 Revised Edition — Air Navigation Act (Chapter 87)

Operation             : 1 April 1971

16. Act 12 of 1971 — Tokyo Convention Act, 1971
     (Amendments made by section 8 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 4/1971

First Reading         : 30 July 1971

Second and Third Readings : 19 October 1971

Commencement          : 1 January 1972 (section 8)

17. Act 32 of 1986 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1986
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with item (1) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 24/1986

First Reading         : 27 October 1986

Second and Third Readings : 9 December 1986

Commencement          : 23 January 1987 (section 2 read with
                            item (1) of the Schedule)

18. 1985 Revised Edition — Air Navigation Act (Chapter 6)

Operation             : 30 March 1987

19. Act 7 of 1997 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1997
     (Amendments made by section 7 read with item (1) of the Second Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                  : 6/1997

First Reading         : 11 July 1997

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
               v

Second and Third Readings : 25 August 1997

Commencement   : 1 October 1997 (section 7 read with
                     item (1) of the Second Schedule)

20. Act 28 of 2000 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments and Repeal) Act
                            2000

     (Amendments made by section 3 of the above Act)

Bill           : 22/2000

First Reading  : 25 August 2000

Second and Third Readings : 9 October 2000

Commencement   : 1 November 2000 (section 3)

21. Act 4 of 2003 — Customs (Amendment) Act 2003
     (Amendments made by section 26 read with item (1) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 6/2003

First Reading  : 10 March 2003

Second and Third Readings : 21 March 2003

Commencement   : 1 April 2003 (section 26 read with
                     item (1) of the Schedule)

22. Act 12 of 2007 — Air Navigation (Amendment) Act 2007

Bill           : 24/2006

First Reading  : 8 November 2006

Second and Third Readings : 23 January 2007

Commencement   : 19 February 2007

23. Act 17 of 2009 — Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore Act 2009
     (Amendments made by section 104 read with item 2 of the Fourth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill           : 10/2009

First Reading  : 23 March 2009

Second and Third Readings : 13 April 2009

Commencement   : 1 July 2009 (section 104 read with
                     item 2 of the Fourth Schedule)

24. Act 10 of 2014 — Air Navigation (Amendment) Act 2014

Bill           : 6/2014

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
               vi

First Reading  : 20 January 2014

Second and Third Readings : 17 February 2014

Commencement   : 1 April 2014

25. 2014 Revised Edition — Air Navigation Act (Chapter 6)

Operation      : 31 July 2014

26. Act 16 of 2015 — Unmanned Aircraft (Public Safety and Security) Act
                             2015

     (Amendments made by Part 1 of the above Act)

Bill           : 13/2015

First Reading  : 13 April 2015

Second and Third Readings : 11 May 2015

Commencement   : 1 June 2015

27. Act 10 of 2018 — Enterprise Singapore Board Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 78(2) of the above Act)

Bill           : 3/2018

First Reading  : 8 January 2018

Second and Third Readings : 5 February 2018

Commencement   : 1 April 2018 (section 78(2))

28. Act 18 of 2018 — Aviation (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2018
     (Amendments made by Part 1 of the above Act)

Bill           : 13/2018

First Reading  : 28 February 2018

Second and Third Readings : 19 March 2018

Commencement   : 29 June 2018 (Part 1)

29. Act 32 of 2018 — Tokyo Convention (Amendment) Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 8 of the above Act)

Bill           : 22/2018

First Reading  : 17 May 2018

Second and Third Readings : 9 July 2018

Commencement   : 15 September 2018 (section 8)

30. Act 34 of 2019 — Air Navigation (Amendment) Act 2019

Bill           : 27/2019

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                      vii

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second and Third Readings : 4 November 2019

Commencement          : 21 December 2019

31. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 453 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2018

First Reading         : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement          : 30 July 2020 (section 453)

32. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 4 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 4 of the Schedule)

33. 2020 Revised Edition — Air Navigation Act 1966

Operation             : 31 December 2021

34. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 24/2022

First Reading         : 12 September 2022

Second and Third Readings : 3 October 2022

Commencement          : 1 November 2022

35. Act 36 of 2018 — Transport Safety Investigations Act 2018

Bill                  : 28/2018

First Reading         : 10 July 2018

Second and Third Readings : 6 August 2018

Commencement          : 1 January 2024

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
               viii

36. Act 3 of 2021 — Guns, Explosives and Weapons Control Act 2021

Bill           : 44/2020

First Reading  : 3 November 2020

Second and Third Readings : 5 January 2021

Commencement   : 1 July 2025

               Abbreviations

.              (updated on 29 August 2022)
               Gazette Notification
G.N.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
G.N. Sp.       Legislative Assembly
L.A.           Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
L.N.           Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
M.             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
               Malaysia)
Parl.          Parliament
S              Subsidiary Legislation
S.I.           Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
S.S.G.G.       Straits Settlements Government Gazette
S.S.G.G. (E)   Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
            COMPARATIVE TABLE
         AIR NAVIGATION ACT 1966

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

         2020 Ed.           2014 Ed.

3                  2A
4                  2B

   (3)                (2A)
   (4)                (3)
5                  2C
6                  2D
7                  2E
8                  3
   (4)                (3A)
   (5)                (3B)
   (6)                (4)
   (7)                (5)
   (8)                (6)
9                  3A
   (8)                (7A)
   (9)                (8)
   (10)               (9)
10                 3B
11                 3C
12                 3D
13                 3E
14                 4
   (4)                (3A)
   (5)                (3B)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
        2020 Ed.  ii         2014 Ed.

   (6)                 (4)
15                 4A
16                 4B
17                 4C
18                 4D
19                 4E
20                 4F
21                 4G
22                 4H
23                 4I
24                 4J
25                 4K
26                 4L
27                 4M

   (3)                 (2A)
   (4)                 (3)
   (5)                 (4)
   (6)                 (5)
   (7)                 (6)
28                 4N
29                 4O
30                 5
31                 6
32                 7
   (3)                 (2A)
   (4)                 (2B)
   (5)                 (3)
   (6)                 (4)

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
        2020 Ed.  iii        2014 Ed.

   (7)                 (5)
33                  7A

   (3)                 (2A)
   (4)                 (2B)
   (5)                 (3)
   (6)                 (4)
34                  7B
35                  7C
   (2)                 (1A)
   (3)                 (1B)
   (4)                 (2)
   (5)                 (3)
   (6)                 (4)
   (7)                 (5)
   (8)                 (6)
   (9)                 (7)
36                  8
37                  8A
38                  8B
39                  8C
40                  8D
41                  8E
42                  9
43                  10
44                  11
45                  12
46                  12A
47                  12B

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
        2020 Ed.  iv

48                                    2014 Ed.
49                 12C
50                 13
51                 13A
52                 13B
53                 13C
54                 13D
—                  13E
—                  13F [Repealed by Act 18 of 2018]
55                 13G [Repealed by Act 18 of 2018]
56                 14
57                 14A
58                 14B
59                 14C
60                 14D
61                 14E
62                 15
63                 16
64                 17
65                 17A
66                 17B
67                 17C
68                 17D
69                 17E
                   17F
   (3)
   (4)                 (2A)
   (5)                 (3)
70                     (4)
                   18

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
        2020 Ed.  v          2014 Ed.

71                 19
72                 20
73                 21
74                 22
75                 23
76                 24
77                 25
78                 26
79                 27
80                 27A
81                 28
82                 28A

   (2)                 (1A)
   (3)                 (2)
   (4)                 (3)
   (5)                 (4)
83                 29
84                 29A
85                 29B
86                 29C
87                 29D
88                 29E
89                 29F
90                 29G
91                 30
92                 31

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
