THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                 REGULATION OF IMPORTS
                   AND EXPORTS ACT 1995

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                                                                       2020 Ed.

Regulation of Imports
and Exports Act 1995

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                        PART 2

           REGULATION AND CONTROL OF IMPORTATION
                           AND EXPORTATION, ETC.

 2A. Administration of Act and delegation of powers
 3. Regulations for registration, regulation and control of

         importation and exportation, etc.
 4. Interpretation of section 3
 5. Exemption
 6. Provisions as to issue and cancellation of licences, etc.
 7. Procedure for cancellation, etc., of certificate, licence or permit
 8. Computer service
 9. Service of notices
10. Classification of goods

                                        PART 3

                  TRADE INFORMATION CERTIFICATES

10A. Issue of trade information certificates
10B. Authorisation to issue trade information certificates
10C. Conditions of authorisation
10D. Cancellation or suspension of authorisation
10E. Issue of trade information certificate containing false or

         misleading information
10F. Tampering with trade information certificates
10G. False representations relating to trade information certificates

                                                      1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                               2

Section   Issue of preferential certificate of origin by manufacturer or
   10H.   exporter who is not authorised certificate issuer
          Regulations for purposes of Part 3
   10I.

          PART 4

          ENFORCEMENT AND MONITORING COMPLIANCE

11.       Power to require production of licence, permit or trade
          information certificate
12.       Seizure of goods and cash in certain cases
13.       Forfeiture
14.       Forfeiture of goods to include packages, etc.
15.       Disposal of forfeited goods
16.       Powers in relation to vessels, aircraft and vehicles
17.       Examination of packages, etc.
18.       Powers in relation to examination of goods
19.       Power to remove packages and goods to police station or
          examination station
20.       Power to require packages to be brought to examination station
          for examination
21.       Search of persons and baggage
22.       Search warrants
23.       When search may be made without warrant
24.       Inspection of computers and associated devices in connection
          with exercise of powers under section 22 or 23
24A.      Inspection of computers and associated devices in connection
          with exercise of powers under section 19, 20 or 28A
24B.      Procedure governing seizure of computer, etc., other than certain
          goods
25.       Powers of authorised officers to enter certain premises
26.       Powers of arrest and search
27.       Obstruction
28.       Penalty for false declarations, etc.
28A.      Penalty for incorrect trade descriptions
29.       Penalty for unauthorised modification of computer program or
          data
30.       General powers to call for information as to goods
31.       Information not to be published or disclosed
32.       Abetment and attempts
33.       Jurisdiction of courts

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
   Regulation of Imports

3  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

Section

   34. Power of Minister to remit penalties and restore goods seized or
            forfeited

   35. Conduct of prosecution
   36. Offences by corporations and liability for acts of agents or

            employees
   37. Protection of informers
   38. Admissibility of certified true copies of documents
   39. Composition of offences
   39AA. Modification of provisions for cross-border railway

            preclearance outside Singapore

                                           PART 5
                                          APPEALS

   39A. Appeal to Minister
   39B. Designation of others to hear appeals

                                           PART 6

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   40. Protection from personal liability
   41. Deemed public servants
   42. Levy, fees and other charges
   43. Consent of Public Prosecutor
   44. Saving of rights of Government

An Act to provide for the regulation, registration and control of
  imports and exports and to make provisions for matters connected
  therewith.

                                                           [1 December 1995]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Regulation of Imports and Exports Act 1995.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.        and Exports Act 1995                                4

Interpretation

2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

“aircraft” means aircraft of any description which may be used
   for the conveyance of persons or goods by air;

“authentication code” means any identification or identifying
   code, password or any other authentication method or
   procedure which has been assigned to a registered user of
   the computer service mentioned in section 8 for the purpose
   of identifying and authenticating the access to and use of the
   computer service by the registered user;

“authorised certificate issuer” means a person who is authorised
   under section 10A(2) to issue trade information certificates;

                                              [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

“authorised officer” means —

          (a) any officer of customs;

          (b) any senior authorised officer;

          (c) any officer of the Board appointed in writing by the
              Director‑General; or

        (d) any officer or class or description of officers
             appointed under section 2A(3);

                                                                        [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

“Board” means the Enterprise Singapore Board established by
   section 3 of the Enterprise Singapore Board Act 2018;

“certificate of origin” means a preferential certificate of origin or
   a non‑preferential certificate of origin;

                                                                       [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

“conveyance” includes any vessel, train, vehicle or aircraft in
   which persons or goods can be carried;

“database report” means any automatic log, journal or other
   report which is automatically generated by the computer
   service mentioned in section 8 for the purposes of recording
   the details of a transaction relating to an electronic notice
   including the authentication code, date and time of receipt,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
   Regulation of Imports

5  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

   storage location and any alteration or deletion relating to the
   notice;

   “Director-General” means the Director-General of Customs
      appointed under section 4(1) of the Customs Act 1960;

   “electronic notice” has the meaning given by section 8(1);

   “examination station” means any place which has been
      prescribed under section 143(1)(d) of the Customs
      Act 1960 as a customs office or customs station for the
      examination of goods or any place or premises as may be
      determined by a senior authorised officer for the examination
      of goods;

   “export” means to take or cause to be taken out of Singapore by
      land, water or air and includes the placing of any goods in a
      conveyance for the purpose of the goods being taken out of
      Singapore but does not include the taking out from Singapore
      of any goods on the same conveyance on which they were
      brought into Singapore unless such goods after being brought
      into Singapore have been landed or transhipped within
      Singapore;

   “false trade information certificate” means a trade information
      certificate —

   (a) that is purportedly issued by the Director‑General
        when it is not so issued;

   (b) that is issued in contravention of section 10A(4);

   (c) that contains any false or misleading information; or

   (d) in respect of which any entry has been —

   (i) erased or altered improperly or with intent to
       deceive;

   (ii) falsified; or

                 (iii) otherwise tampered with;

                                                                          [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

   “goods” means any movable or personal property whatsoever
      but does not include choses in action and money (except for a

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      6

          collector’s piece, an investment article or item of numismatic
          interest and currency notes imported or exported in
          substantial quantities);

“import” means to bring or cause to be brought into Singapore
   by land, water or air from any place which is outside
   Singapore but does not include the bringing into Singapore of
   goods which are to be taken out of Singapore on the same
   conveyance on which they were brought into Singapore
   without any landing or transhipment within Singapore;

“master” includes every person, having or taking command or
   charge of a vessel, except a pilot of a vessel holding a licence
   under the Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore Act 1996
   when acting in the course of his or her duties;

“mobile communication device” means —

          (a) a mobile phone; or

        (b) any wireless handheld device (such as a tablet
             computer) or wearable device (such as a smart
             watch) designed or capable of being used for a
             communication function;

                                                                       [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

“non-preferential certificate of origin” means a trade
   information certificate that —

          (a) certifies goods mentioned in that document as
               meeting the criteria specified by the
               Director‑General so as to be considered as
               originating in a particular country or territory; and

        (b) does not confer any tariff benefit for those goods;

                                                                       [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

“officer of customs” has the meaning given by the Customs
   Act 1960;

“pilot of an aircraft” means every person having or taking
   command or charge of an aircraft;

“police officer” means any member of the Singapore Police
   Force;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
   Regulation of Imports

7  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

   “preferential certificate of origin” means a trade information
      certificate that —

   (a) certifies goods mentioned in that document as
        meeting the criteria of a preferential tariff
        arrangement or agreement between Singapore and
        one or more other countries or territories so as to be
        considered as originating in a particular country or
        territory; and

           (b) confers a tariff benefit for those goods;

                                                                          [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

   “registered user” means a person who has been registered with
      and authorised by the Director-General to gain access to and
      use the computer service mentioned in section 8;

   “relevant decision of the United Nations Security Council”
      means any decision of the United Nations Security Council in
      resolutions made under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
      United Nations signed at San Francisco on 26 June 1945;

   “senior authorised officer” means —

   (a) any senior officer of customs;

   (b) any officer of the Board appointed in writing by the
        Director‑General;

   (c) any police officer; or

           (d) any officer or class or description of officers
                appointed under section 2A(4);

                                                                           [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

   “senior officer of customs” has the meaning given by the
      Customs Act 1960;

   “shipped as ships’ stores” means loaded for use as stores on a
      voyage or flight to or from a destination outside Singapore or
      as merchandise for sale by retail to persons carried on such
      voyage or flight in a ship or an aircraft;

   “trade information certificate” means any certificate (by
      whatever name called) certifying any one or more of the
      following matters in respect of any goods:

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                 Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.         and Exports Act 1995                               8

          (a) their import into, export from, transhipment in or
               transit through Singapore;

          (b) their manufacture, processing or production in
               Singapore;

          (c) the place of origin of the goods;

          (d) whether the goods are freely available for purchase in
               Singapore;

          (e) whether the goods have been subject to any change or
              modification of any kind while they are in transit in
              Singapore;

          (f) such other matter as may be prescribed,

   but excludes any document certifying any of the matters
   mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (f) in respect of any goods that
   is prescribed as not being a trade information certificate;

                                                                       [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

“tranship” means to remove goods from one conveyance to
   another for the purpose of taking them out of Singapore;

“transit” means to bring goods into Singapore from a place
   outside Singapore for the purpose of taking them out of
   Singapore on the same conveyance on which they were
   brought into Singapore;

“vehicle” includes any vehicle in which persons or goods can be
   carried by land however drawn or propelled or set or kept in
   motion;

      “vessel” includes any ship or boat or other description of vessel
         used in navigation.

                                                                         [6/2003; 17/2002; 10/2018; 16/2018]

 (2) In this Act, any reference to a document or record includes, in
addition to a document or record on paper, a reference to any, or part
of any —

(a) document or record kept on any magnetic, optical,
     chemical or other medium;

(b) photograph;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
   Regulation of Imports

9  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

   (c) map, plan, graph, picture or drawing; or

   (d) film (including a microfilm and a microfiche), negative,
        disc, tape, soundtrack or any other device in which one or
        more visual images, sounds or other data are embodied so
        as to be capable (with or without the aid of some other
        equipment) of being reproduced therefrom.

 (3) In this Act, any reference to a document or record in writing or
the making of a document or record in writing, unless the context
otherwise requires, includes any electronic notice, or the making,
serving or submitting of such a notice under the provisions of this Act
or any regulations made under this Act.

                                    PART 2

       REGULATION AND CONTROL OF IMPORTATION
                       AND EXPORTATION, ETC.

Administration of Act and delegation of powers

 2A.—(1) The Director-General is responsible for the
administration of this Act and any regulations made under this Act,
subject to the general or special directions of the Minister.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

 (2) The Director-General may delegate the exercise of all or any of
the powers conferred or duties imposed upon him or her by this Act or
any regulations made under this Act to any senior authorised officer
or any authorised officer.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

 (3) The Minister may appoint any officer or class or description of
officers to exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred and
imposed on an authorised officer by this Act.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (4) The Minister may appoint any officer or class or description of
officers to exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred and
imposed on a senior authorised officer by this Act.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      10

 (5) An appointment under subsection (3) or (4) must be published
in the Gazette.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

Regulations for registration, regulation and control of
importation and exportation, etc.

 3.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for the registration,
regulation and control of all or any class of goods imported into,
exported from, transhipped in or in transit through Singapore.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may make
regulations —

       (a) for prohibiting, absolutely or conditionally, or for
            regulating, in all cases or in any specified case or class
            of cases and subject to such exceptions as may be made by
            the regulations, the import or export or the carriage
            coastwise or the shipment as ships’ stores or the
            transhipment or transit of all goods or of goods of any
            specified class or description;

       (b) for imposing on such importers, exporters, agents,
            forwarding agents, common carriers, consignors or
            consignees of goods or on owners, agents, masters or
            persons in charge of a conveyance as may be prescribed in
            the regulations, the duty to furnish —

               (i) to the Director-General; or

              (ii) to the owner, agent, master or person in charge of a
                   conveyance, or to a railway station-master or to such
                   other person as may be prescribed,

       (b) such particulars, information or documents relating to
            goods imported into, exported from, transhipped in or in
            transit through Singapore as may be prescribed;

       (c) for permitting the Director-General to authorise, in any
            manner that may be prescribed, the importation,
            exportation, transhipment or transit of goods in regard to
            which the required particulars, information or documents
            have been furnished;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

11  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

    (d) for prohibiting the importation, exportation, transhipment
         or transit of goods, or the delivery of goods or of
         documents relating to those goods, except in compliance
         with the regulations or with the approval of the
         Director‑General;

    (e) for prohibiting the exportation of all goods or goods of any
        specified class or description except in compliance with
        any conditions that may be prescribed for the purpose of
        complying with any preferential tariff arrangement or
        agreement between Singapore and a country or territory
        outside Singapore, including any condition that the goods
        exported are to be from a prescribed source or that the
        manufacture of the goods is to be carried out or procured
        by any person registered under regulations made under this
        Act;

    (f) for requiring the owner or agent of any conveyance to
        furnish particulars of coal, oil or other fuel or stores placed
        on board that conveyance in Singapore;

    (g) for determining the form and manner in which the required
         particulars, information and documents must be furnished;

    (h) for prescribing the time within which the required
         particulars, information and documents must be furnished;

    (i) for requiring the master of any vessel to attend at an
        examination station or the office of the Port Master, and to
        furnish any particulars, information and documents, that
        may be prescribed;

    (j) for prohibiting the issue of a port clearance to the master of
        any vessel pending compliance with any provision of the
        regulations;

    (k) for the registration of all or any class of goods that may be
        prescribed, imported into, exported from, transhipped in or
        in transit through Singapore;

    (l) for the registration of importers, exporters, common
        carriers of goods or any person making a declaration
        under this Act or any regulations made under this Act;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      12

(m) for the issue of certificates of entitlement to permits for the
     export or import of any classes of goods, that are
     prescribed, to successful applicants who submitted bids
     for the certificates;

(n) for requiring fees and deposits to be paid for the
     submission of applications for the issue of certificates of
     entitlement under any regulations made under
     paragraph (m), and providing for the forfeiture of
     deposits for non-compliance with any of the conditions
     governing the submission of such applications;

(o) for prescribing the levy, or the method or manner for
     determining the amount of the levy, payable for the import
     or export of different classes of goods or for a certificate of
     entitlement issued under any regulations made under
     paragraph (m) and for prescribing the manner or method
     in which the levy must be paid;

(p) for requiring security to be provided to secure compliance
     with this Act, any regulations made under this Act or any
     condition imposed under this Act or its regulations, and to
     make provision for the form, manner, amount, period and
     forfeiture of the security;

(q) for prescribing the fees and charges, or the method or
     manner for determining the amount of the fees or charges,
     payable by virtue of any regulations made under this
     section, and for prescribing the manner or method in which
     the fees or charges must be paid;

          (r) for prescribing the fees to be charged for services and
              facilities provided by the Director‑General;

          (s) for the bringing of appeals to the Minister in respect of any
              matter mentioned in this Act or any regulations made under
              this Act, and the procedure for those appeals; and

          (t) for prescribing anything which is required to be prescribed
              under this Act or which is necessary or expedient to be

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

13  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

            prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to the
            provisions of this Act.

                                                                                       [6/2003; 28/2003; 3/2014]

 (3) The Minister may, in making any regulations under
subsection (2), provide that any person who contravenes or fails to
comply with any provision thereof shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) in respect of a first offence, to a fine not exceeding
         $100,000 or 3 times the value of the goods in respect of
         which the offence was committed, whichever is the greater,
         or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
         both; and

       (b) in respect of a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not
            exceeding $200,000 or 4 times the value of the goods in
            respect of which the offence was committed, whichever is
            the greater, or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 years or to both.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

 (4) All such regulations must be presented to Parliament as soon as
possible after publication in the Gazette.

Interpretation of section 3

 4.—(1) Any regulations made under section 3 are, unless the
contrary is expressly stated, deemed to be additional to, and not in
substitution for, the provisions of any other written law for the time
being in force.

 (2) To avoid doubt, it is declared that the taking into or out of
Singapore of any ship, aircraft or vehicle may be prohibited or
regulated by any regulations made under section 3 as an importation
or exportation of goods, even though the ship, aircraft or vehicle is
conveying goods or passengers, and whether or not it is moving under
its own power.

Exemption

 5. The Minister may either generally or in any particular case, and
either permanently or for any period or periods that he or she may

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      14

think fit, exempt, subject to any conditions that he or she thinks fit,
any person or class of persons, or any conveyance or class of
conveyance, or any goods or class of goods from all or any of the
provisions of this Act or any regulations made under this Act.

Provisions as to issue and cancellation of licences, etc.

 6.—(1) Where provision is made by any regulations made under
section 3 for the issue of any certificate, licence or permit by the
Director‑General, the Director‑General may, if he or she thinks fit and
subject to any express provision to the contrary contained in the
regulations, make provisions —

       (a) as to the issue and terms of the certificate, licence or permit
            and as to the cancellation or suspension thereof at any time;

       (b) as to the conditions to be attached to the issue of the
            certificate, licence or permit and the cancellation or
            variation from time to time of those conditions; and

       (c) for the refund of all or part of any levy or fee paid for the
            issue of the certificate, licence or permit in such
            circumstances as may be permitted in the regulations.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

 (2) Without prejudice to subsection (1)(a), any authorised officer
may at any time cancel the certificate, licence or permit if —

       (a) any condition of the certificate, licence or permit is
            contravened; or

       (b) the officer is satisfied that the certificate, licence or permit
            was issued as a result of any declaration, statement,
            representation or information which is false in a material
            particular.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

Procedure for cancellation, etc., of certificate, licence or permit

 7.—(1) Cancellation, suspension or variation of the condition of
any certificate, licence or permit, issued by virtue of any regulations
made under section 3, may be effected by endorsement thereof on the
certificate, licence or permit, or by service of a written notice of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

15  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

cancellation, suspension or variation on the holder of the certificate,
licence or permit.

 (2) If any such certificate, licence or permit is cancelled or
suspended, the holder thereof must, unless it has otherwise been
lawfully disposed of, surrender it forthwith to the authorised officer
who cancelled or suspended it.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

 (3) Subsection (2) does not apply to a certificate, licence or permit
issued by an electronic notice transmitted in accordance with
section 8.

 (4) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $3,000.

Computer service

 8.—(1) The Director‑General may establish or operate a computer
service and make provision for any bid, certificate, declaration,
direction, list, manifest, notice, permit, receipt, return or other
document required or authorised by this Act or any regulations made
under this Act to be made, served or submitted by electronic
transmission (called in this Act an electronic notice).

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

 (2) A registered user may, in accordance with the regulations made
under subsection (11), make and serve an electronic notice to the
computer account of the Director‑General.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

 (3) The Director‑General or any person authorised by him or her
may, in accordance with the regulations made under subsection (11),
make and serve an electronic notice to the computer account of a
registered user.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

 (4) Where an electronic notice is transmitted to the computer
account of the Director‑General using the authentication code
assigned to a registered user —

       (a) with or without the authority of the registered user; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      16

(b) before the notification to the Director‑General by the
     registered user in the prescribed manner, of cancellation of
     the authentication code,

that notice is, for the purposes of this Act or any regulations made
under this Act, presumed to be made by the registered user unless the
registered user adduces evidence to the contrary; and where the
registered user alleges that the registered user has transmitted no such
notice, the burden is also on the registered user to adduce evidence of
that fact.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

 (5) For the purposes of this Act, an electronic notice or a copy
thereof is not inadmissible in evidence merely on the basis that it was
transmitted without the making or delivery of any equivalent
document or counterpart in paper form.

 (6) Despite any other written law, in any proceedings under this Act
or any regulations made under this Act, an electronic notice or a copy
thereof (including a print‑out of that notice or copy) or any database
report (including a print‑out of that report) relating to that notice —

(a) certified by an authorised officer to contain all or any
     information transmitted in accordance with this section;
     and

(b) duly authenticated in the manner specified in
     subsection (7) or is otherwise duly authenticated by
     showing that there is no material discrepancy between
     the electronic notice or copy thereof certified by an
     authorised officer and the copy of the same electronic
     notice kept by an independent record keeper appointed
     under any regulations made under subsection (11),

is admissible as evidence of the facts stated or contained therein.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

 (7) For the purposes of this section, a certificate —

(a) giving the authentication code and other particulars of any
     user and device (if known) involved in the production and
     transmission of, and identifying the nature of, the
     electronic notice or a copy thereof; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

17  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

    (b) purporting to be signed by an authorised officer or by a
         person occupying a responsible position in relation to the
         operation of the computer service at the relevant time,

is sufficient evidence that the electronic notice or the copy thereof has
been duly authenticated, unless the court, in its discretion, calls for
further evidence on this issue.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

 (8) Where an electronic notice or a copy thereof is admissible under
subsection (6), it is presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the
contents of the electronic notice or the copy thereof have been
accurately transmitted.

 (9) The Director-General may, for the purpose of facilitating any
electronic transmission under this section, approve the use in any
such electronic transmission of symbols, codes, abbreviations or
other notations to represent any particulars or information required
under this Act or any regulations made under this Act.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

 (10) Despite section 31, any authorised officer or any person being
employed or engaged in the administration of this Act or any
regulations made under this Act is not to be treated as having
contravened section 31 merely because he or she communicates to the
independent record keeper or the independent record keeper’s
employee or permits the independent record keeper or the
independent record keeper’s employee to have access to any
electronic notice or any information contained therein; and
section 31 applies to the independent record keeper and the
independent record keeper’s employee as if they were persons
employed in the administration of this Act.

(11) The Minister may make regulations —

    (a) prescribing the conditions for subscription to the computer
         service, including the manner in which the authentication
         codes are to be assigned;

    (b) prescribing the bids, certificates, declarations, directions,
         lists, manifests, notices, permits, receipts, returns,
         statements or any other document which may be

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      18

          transmitted through the computer service including the
          form and manner in which they are to be transmitted;

          (c) for the correction of errors in or amendments to electronic
              notices;

(d) prescribing the procedure for use of the computer service
     including the procedure in circumstances where there is a
     breakdown or interruption in the service;

          (e) for the appointment of an independent record keeper to be
              charged with the duty to maintain for a prescribed period a
              record of all the electronic notices and transactions made
              through it between the Director‑General and the registered
              users, such a duty to include keeping the database reports;

          (f) for the independent record keeper to produce a copy of the
              relevant record pertaining to any electronic notice or a
              copy thereof to either the Director‑General or the
              registered user, whose electronic notice is in issue, when
              requested by either party to do so;

(g) for the standards of security, confidentiality, data integrity
     and conduct of the computer service and for the review of
     the operations and activities of the data service provider by
     such authority or expert as may be prescribed; and

(h) generally for the better provision of the computer service.

                                                                                                  [6/2003]

Service of notices

 9.—(1) Every notice, requisition or document required by this Act
or any regulations made under this Act to be served on any person
may be served —

       (a) by delivering the notice, requisition or document to the
            person;

       (b) by sending the notice, requisition or document by
            registered post addressed to the person at the person’s
            usual or last known place of residence or place of business;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

19  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

    (c) where the person is a body of persons or a company —

    (i) by delivering the notice, requisition or document to
        the secretary or other like officer of the body of
        persons or company at its registered office or
        principal place of business; or

    (ii) by sending the notice, requisition or document
         addressed to the body of persons or company at its
         registered office or principal place of business; or

    (d) by an electronic notice transmitted in accordance with
         section 8.

 (2) Any notice, requisition or document sent by registered post to
any person in accordance with subsection (1) is deemed to be duly
served on the person to whom the letter is addressed at the time when
the letter would in the ordinary course of post be delivered and in
proving service of such notice, requisition or document it is sufficient
to prove that the envelope containing the notice, requisition or
document was properly addressed, stamped and posted by registered
post.

Classification of goods

 10. Any officer of customs may certify in writing under his or her
hand that any goods examined by him or her are goods of a particular
category or description and thereupon the goods are, for the purposes
of this Act and any regulations made under this Act presumed, unless
the contrary is proved, to be goods of that category or description.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

                                    PART 3
              TRADE INFORMATION CERTIFICATES

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

Issue of trade information certificates
 10A.—(1) The Director-General may issue any trade information

certificate in respect of any goods that the Director‑General thinks
appropriate.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      20

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), the Director‑General may
authorise, for any period of time specified by the Director‑General,
any person to issue —

(a) on application to the person, any trade information
     certificate of any class, description or type in respect of
     goods of any class, description or type; or

(b) any trade information certificate of any class, description
     or type in respect of goods of any class, description or type
     manufactured in, or to be exported or re‑exported from,
     Singapore by the person for the purposes of claiming a
     preferential rate of duty under such arrangement or
     agreement as may be prescribed, with any country or
     territory outside Singapore that provides for a
     self‑certification or self‑declaration scheme in relation to
     those goods.

 (3) To avoid doubt, an authorisation made under subsection (2) in
respect of any trade information certificate does not prevent the
Director‑General from issuing the trade information certificate under
subsection (1).

 (4) A person must not issue any trade information certificate of any
class, description or type in respect of any class, description or type of
goods (whether expressly or by implication) as an authorised
certificate issuer for that class, description or type of trade
information certificate in respect of that class, description or type
of goods unless the person is in fact such authorised certificate issuer.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (4) does not apply in respect of any
person issuing any trade information certificate for any goods if the
person does not do so (whether expressly or by implication) as an
authorised certificate issuer, whether or not for that trade information
certificate or in respect of those goods.

 (6) A person who contravenes subsection (4) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) in respect of a first offence — to a fine not exceeding
     $100,000 or 3 times the value of the goods in respect of
     which the trade information certificate mentioned in that

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

21  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

    subsection was issued, whichever is greater, or to
    imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
    both; and

    (b) in respect of a second or subsequent offence — to a fine not
         exceeding $200,000 or 4 times the value of the goods in
         respect of which the trade information certificate
         mentioned in that subsection was issued, whichever is
         greater, or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
         3 years or to both.

                                                                        [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

Authorisation to issue trade information certificates

 10B.—(1) An application for, or to renew, an authorisation as an
authorised certificate issuer must —

       (a) be made to the Director-General in the form and manner
            that the Director‑General specifies; and

       (b) state —

               (i) the class, description or type of goods for which the
                   applicant proposes to issue trade information
                   certificates as an authorised certificate issuer; and

              (ii) the class, description or type of trade information
                   certificate which the applicant proposes to issue, and
                   the matters which the applicant proposes to certify in
                   respect of those goods, as an authorised certificate
                   issuer.

 (2) The Director-General may, after considering an application —

       (a) grant the application; or

       (b) refuse the application.

 (3) The Director-General must not grant any application under
subsection (2)(a) unless the Director-General is satisfied that the
applicant is a fit and proper person to be an authorised certificate
issuer of the class, description or type of trade information certificate,
and in respect of the class, description or type of goods, to which the
application relates.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      22

 (4) In determining whether an applicant is a fit and proper person
for the purpose mentioned in subsection (3), the Director‑General
must take into account all relevant facts or matters, including but not
limited to —

(a) whether the applicant has contravened, or is reasonably
     suspected of having contravened, any provision of this Act
     or any regulations made under this Act; and

(b) in the case of an application to renew an authorisation,
     whether the applicant has breached any condition imposed
     on the applicant under section 10C.

 (5) The Director-General may, from time to time, prepare and
publish a list of all authorised certificate issuers in the form and
manner that the Director‑General thinks fit.

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

Conditions of authorisation

 10C.—(1) The Director‑General may impose any condition that the
Director‑General thinks fit on the authorisation of a person as an
authorised certificate issuer, including the matters that the person
may certify, and the circumstances under which the person may
certify, under the authorisation.

 (2) The Director-General may impose different conditions in
respect of —

       (a) different classes of authorised certificate issuers according
            to the class, description or type of trade information
            certificates that they may issue;

       (b) different classes, descriptions or types of goods in respect
            of which authorised certificate issuers may issue trade
            information certificates; or

       (c) authorised certificate issuers under different
            circumstances.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (1), the Director‑General may
impose a condition requiring the authorised certificate issuer
concerned to comply with —

       (a) any written law; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

23  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

    (b) any lawful requirement imposed by the Government or any
         public authority established under any public Act for a
         public purpose,

that is applicable to the issue, form or content of trade information
certificates to which the authorised certificate issuer’s authorisation
relates.

 (4) The Director-General may at any time (without compensation)
modify, remove or add conditions of the authorisation of an
authorised certificate issuer, but before modifying or adding any
condition to an authorisation, the Director-General must serve a
written notice on the authorised certificate issuer of the
Director‑General’s intention.

(5) The written notice must —

    (a) state the modification or addition that the Director‑General
         proposes to make; and

    (b) specify the time (being at least 14 days after the service of
         the written notice on the authorised certificate issuer)
         within which written representations may be made to the
         Director‑General with respect to the proposed
         modification or addition.

 (6) On receiving any written representation mentioned in
subsection (5)(b), the Director-General must consider the
representation and may —

    (a) reject the representation;

    (b) amend the proposed modification or addition in the manner
         that the Director-General thinks fit having regard to the
         representation; or

    (c) withdraw the proposed modification or addition.

 (7) The Director-General must serve a written notice on the
authorised certificate issuer of the Director-General’s decision
under subsection (6) and, in the case of subsection (6)(a) or (b),
must specify in the notice the date from which the decision takes
effect.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      24

 (8) To avoid doubt, the conditions imposed under this section must
not be inconsistent with this Part or any regulations made under
section 10I.

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

Cancellation or suspension of authorisation

 10D.—(1) The Director-General may (without compensation)
cancel, or suspend for a period not exceeding 6 months, the
authorisation of an authorised certificate issuer (X) if the
Director‑General is satisfied that —

       (a) X obtained the authorisation or renewal of authorisation by
            fraud or misrepresentation;

       (b) X is contravening or not complying with, or has
            contravened or failed to comply with —

               (i) a condition of the authorisation; or

              (ii) any provision of this Act or any regulations made
                   under this Act; or

       (c) X is no longer a fit and proper person to be such authorised
            certificate issuer.

 (2) Before the Director-General takes any regulatory action
against X, the Director-General must serve a written notice on X of
the Director‑General’s intention.

 (3) The written notice must —

       (a) state the regulatory action that the Director‑General
            proposes to take and the reason for the regulatory action;
            and

       (b) specify the time (being at least 14 days after the service of
            the written notice on the authorised certificate issuer)
            within which written representations may be made to the
            Director‑General with respect to the proposed regulatory
            action.

 (4) On receiving any written representation mentioned in
subsection (3)(b), the Director-General must consider the
representation and may —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

25  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

    (a) proceed with the proposed regulatory action;

    (b) where the proposed regulatory action was a suspension of
         the authorisation, proceed instead with a suspension of a
         duration that is different from what was proposed, or with a
         cancellation;

    (c) where the proposed regulatory action was a cancellation of
        the authorisation, proceed instead with a suspension of the
        authorisation; or

    (d) not proceed with the proposed regulatory action.

 (5) The Director-General must serve a written notice on X of the
Director‑General’s decision under subsection (4) and, in the case of
subsection (4)(a), (b) or (c), must specify in the notice the date from
which the decision takes effect.

 (6) The cancellation or suspension of the authorisation of an
authorised certificate issuer does not prejudice the enforcement by
any person of any right or claim against the former authorised
certificate issuer or authorised certificate issuer, or by the former
authorised certificate issuer or authorised certificate issuer of any
right or claim against any person.

 (7) In this section, “regulatory action” means the cancellation or
suspension of the authorisation of an authorised certificate issuer
under subsection (1).

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

Issue of trade information certificate containing false or
misleading information

 10E. An authorised certificate issuer who issues a trade information
certificate containing any information which the authorised
certificate issuer knows or ought reasonably to know is false or
misleading shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                 Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.         and Exports Act 1995                               26

Tampering with trade information certificates

10F.—(1) A person must not —

(a) improperly or with intent to deceive, erase or alter;

(b) falsify; or

          (c) otherwise tamper with,

any entry in a trade information certificate.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) in respect of a first offence — to a fine not exceeding
     $100,000 or 3 times the value of the goods in respect of
     which the trade information certificate mentioned in that
     subsection was issued, whichever is greater, or to
     imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
     both; and

(b) in respect of a second or subsequent offence — to a fine not
     exceeding $200,000 or 4 times the value of the goods in
     respect of which the trade information certificate
     mentioned in that subsection was issued, whichever is
     greater, or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
     3 years or to both.

                                                                    [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

False representations relating to trade information certificates

 10G.—(1) Any person who represents that a trade information
certificate in respect of any goods is a trade information certificate
that is issued by —

       (a) the Director-General;

       (b) an authorised certificate issuer; or

       (c) an authorised certificate issuer who is authorised to issue
            that class, description or type of trade information
            certificates in respect of that class, description or type of
            goods,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

27  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

whether expressly or by implication, knowing or having reason to
believe that the representation is false, shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) Any person who represents that a trade information certificate
(whether or not issued by the Director-General or an authorised
certificate issuer) is issued in respect of goods (goods Y) other than
the goods for which it was issued, knowing or having reason to
believe that the representation is false, shall be guilty of an offence.

 (3) Any person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)
shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) in respect of a first offence — to a fine not exceeding
         $100,000 or 3 times the value of the goods in respect of
         which the trade information certificate mentioned in that
         subsection was issued, whichever is greater, or to
         imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
         both; and

    (b) in respect of a second or subsequent offence — to a fine not
         exceeding $200,000 or 4 times the value of the goods in
         respect of which the trade information certificate
         mentioned in that subsection was issued, whichever is
         greater, or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
         3 years or to both.

 (4) Any person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (2)
shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) in respect of a first offence — to a fine not exceeding
         $100,000 or 3 times the value of goods Y, whichever is
         greater, or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
         2 years or to both; and

    (b) in respect of a second or subsequent offence — to a fine not
         exceeding $200,000 or 4 times the value of goods Y,
         whichever is greater, or to imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 3 years or to both.

                                                                        [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      28

Issue of preferential certificate of origin by manufacturer or
exporter who is not authorised certificate issuer

 10H.—(1) Nothing in this Part prevents any manufacturer or
exporter (Z) from issuing on Z’s own account, in respect of any of Z’s
goods for export or re-export from Singapore, a preferential
certificate of origin if —

(a) there is a preferential tariff arrangement or agreement
     between Singapore and the country or territory to which
     the goods are to be exported or re-exported that permits the
     issue of the preferential certificate of origin by Z;

(b) the preferential certificate of origin is in the form and
     manner acceptable to that country or territory; and

          (c) Z does not issue the preferential certificate of origin
              (whether expressly or by implication) as an authorised
              certificate issuer.

 (2) Z must maintain proper and accurate records of all preferential
certificates of origin issued, including copies of the documents that
were relied on by Z for the purpose of issuing the certificates, for the
period of time that may be required under the relevant preferential
tariff arrangement or agreement.

 (3) The Director‑General may require Z to provide to the
Director‑General any records mentioned in subsection (2) at any
time (including on a periodic basis) and in any manner that the
Director‑General may require.

 (4) Z must not issue any preferential certificate of origin containing
any information which Z knows or ought reasonably to know is false
or misleading.

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) or (4), or fails to
comply with a requirement of the Director-General made under
subsection (3), shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

(a) in respect of a first offence — to a fine not exceeding
     $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
     2 years or to both; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

29  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

    (b) in respect of a second or subsequent offence — to a fine not
         exceeding $200,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 3 years or to both.

                                                                        [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

Regulations for purposes of Part 3

 10I.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for the purposes of
this Part.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may make
regulations to provide for —

       (a) any other requirement that a person must satisfy to be
            authorised as an authorised certificate issuer, in addition to
            section 10B(3);

       (b) the duties and responsibilities of authorised certificate
            issuers in relation to the issue of trade information
            certificates, including requiring them to —

               (i) keep proper and accurate records of prescribed
                   particulars, information and documents for a
                   prescribed period, including a period required
                   under any preferential tariff arrangement or
                   agreement that is relevant to the trade information
                   certificate concerned; and

              (ii) provide (including on a periodic basis) any
                   particulars, information or document mentioned in
                   sub‑paragraph (i) to the Director‑General on the
                   Director‑General’s request;

       (c) the applications to be made to the Director-General or an
            authorised certificate issuer authorised under
            section 10A(2)(a) for any trade information certificate;

       (d) the duties and responsibilities of persons to whom trade
            information certificates have been issued in relation to
            those trade information certificates, including requiring
            them to —

               (i) keep proper and accurate records of prescribed
                   particulars, information and documents for a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      30

          prescribed period, including a period required under
          any preferential tariff arrangement or agreement that
          is relevant to the trade information certificate
          concerned; and

          (ii) provide (including on a periodic basis) any
               particulars, information or document mentioned in
               sub‑paragraph (i) to the Director-General on the
               Director‑General’s request;

          (e) the circumstances under which the Director-General and
              any authorised certificate issuer may issue any trade
              information certificate;

          (f) the conditions to be attached to the issue of a trade
              information certificate, including conditions as may be
              determined by the Director-General (for trade information
              certificates issued by the Director-General) or authorised
              certificate issuer (for trade information certificates issued
              by an authorised certificate issuer);

(g) the cancellation by the Director-General or an authorised
     certificate issuer at any time (without compensation) of
     any trade information certificate, including the
     cancellation by the Director‑General of a trade
     information certificate issued by an authorised certificate
     issuer;

(h) the fees and charges for the purposes of this Part, and the
     manner, method and time of their payment, including fees
     and charges for —

          (i) an application for, or for the renewal of, an
              authorisation as an authorised certificate issuer;

          (ii) an authorisation, or the renewal of an authorisation,
               as an authorised certificate issuer;

          (iii) an application for any trade information certificate

          made to the Director-General or an authorised

          certificate  issuer     authorised                        under

          section 10A(2)(a); and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

31  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

    (iv) the issue of any trade information certificate by the
         Director‑General or an authorised certificate issuer
         authorised under section 10A(2)(a),

    (h) including that the amount of any fee or charge payable to
         an authorised certificate issuer authorised under
         section 10A(2)(a), and the manner and method of its
         payment, are to be determined by the authorised certificate
         issuer; and

    (i) anything which may be or is required to be prescribed.

 (3) Regulations made under subsection (2)(a), (b), (h)(i) and (ii)
and (i) may make different provisions for different classes of
authorised certificate issuers according to —

    (a) the classes, descriptions or types of trade information
         certificates that they may issue; or

    (b) the classes, descriptions or types of goods in respect of
         which they may issue trade information certificates.

 (4) Regulations made under subsection (2)(c) to (g), (h)(iii) and (iv)
and (i) may make different provisions for —

    (a) different classes, descriptions or types of trade information
         certificates; or

    (b) the different classes, descriptions or types of goods in
         respect of which a trade information certificate may be
         issued.

(5) Regulations made under subsection (2)(h) may provide for —

    (a) the refund of all or part of the fees or charges paid for the
         authorisation, or renewal of authorisation, of a person as an
         authorised certificate issuer; or

    (b) the refund of all or part of the fees or charges paid for the
         issue of any trade information certificate, including that a
         refund may be given in such circumstances as may be
         determined by the authorised certificate issuer to whom
         they are paid.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      32

 (6) Regulations made by the Minister under subsection (1) may
prescribe offences for the breach of any regulation and prescribe the
punishment for those offences, which must not exceed —

(a) in respect of a first offence — a fine not exceeding
     $100,000 or (as applicable) 3 times the value of the goods
     to which the offence relates, whichever is greater, or with
     imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or with
     both; and

(b) in respect of a second or subsequent offence — a fine not
     exceeding $200,000 or (as applicable) 4 times the value of
     the goods to which the offence relates, whichever is
     greater, or with imprisonment for a term not exceeding
     3 years or with both.

 (7) All regulations made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

                                    PART 4

      ENFORCEMENT AND MONITORING COMPLIANCE

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

Power to require production of licence, permit or trade
information certificate

 11.—(1) The holder of any current licence or permit issued under
any regulations made under section 3 must, unless the holder has
lawfully parted with possession of it, produce the licence or permit on
demand to any authorised officer.

 (1A) A person to whom a trade information certificate is issued
by —

       (a) the Director-General or a person purportedly as the
            Director‑General; or

       (b) an authorised certificate issuer or a person purportedly as
            such authorised certificate issuer,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

33  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

must produce the trade information certificate on demand to any
authorised officer.

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

 (2) Any person who fails to comply with this section shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$3,000.

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

Seizure of goods and cash in certain cases

 12.—(1) A senior authorised officer may seize any goods in any
place in respect of which he or she has reasonable grounds for
believing that —

       (a) a false trade information certificate has been issued; or

       (b) an offence under this Act or any regulations made under
            this Act has been or is being committed.

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

 (2) All such goods must be delivered as soon as possible into the
custody of the Director‑General and must be detained in custody
pending an order of the court in regard to the disposal thereof made
under this Act.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

 (2A) In addition, if a senior authorised officer has reasonable cause
to suspect that any cash found on any person may afford evidence as
to the commission of any offence under this Act or any regulations
made under this Act or breach of a provision of this Act or any
regulations made under this Act, the senior authorised officer —

       (a) may seize the cash; and

       (b) must deliver the seized cash, as soon as possible into the
            custody of the Director‑General.

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

 (3) Despite subsection (2), if any goods seized is, in the opinion of
the Director‑General, of a perishable nature or consists of an animal
or other living creature, the Director‑General may at any time direct
the sale thereof on such terms and in such manner and at such price as
the Director‑General may think fit and the proceeds of the sale are

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      34

thereupon treated for the purposes of this Act as though they were the
goods seized.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

Forfeiture

 13.—(1) The court before which any person is tried for an offence
may, whether a conviction is had or not, order the forfeiture of any
goods produced before it or seized under this Act in connection with
the offence for which the person is tried in respect of which it is
satisfied that an offence has been committed.

 (2) When goods have been seized under the provisions of this Act,
the Director‑General must, within one month from the date of the
seizure, (unless a prosecution has before the expiry of that period
been commenced and is pending against any person for an offence in
respect of the goods so seized) report the fact of the seizure to a
District Court and the Court may, if satisfied that an offence has been
committed in respect of those goods, order them to be forfeited.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

 (3) No order may be made under this section to the prejudice of any
person claiming to be the owner of, or to have an interest in, those
goods, unless that person has had an opportunity of being heard,
either personally or by an advocate and solicitor, by the District
Court, to show cause why such an order should not be made.

Forfeiture of goods to include packages, etc.

 14. The provisions of this Act relating to the seizure and forfeiture
of goods apply also to any packages in which the goods are found and
to all the contents thereof and to any article used to conceal the goods.

Disposal of forfeited goods

 15. All goods forfeited under this Act must be sold or disposed of in
such manner as may be generally or specially directed by the
Director‑General.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

35  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

Powers in relation to vessels, aircraft and vehicles

 16.—(1) A senior authorised officer or an authorised officer acting
in accordance with the general or special directions of a senior
authorised officer may board any conveyance in Singapore and may
rummage and search all parts of the conveyance for goods which may
be liable to forfeiture under this Act.

 (2) For the more effective exercise of the powers conferred by this
section, a senior authorised officer may —

    (a) require the master of any vessel in Singapore to heave to;

    (b) by direction to the master of any vessel or the pilot of any
         aircraft in Singapore, require the vessel or aircraft (as the
         case may be) not to proceed until so authorised;

    (c) require any documents which ought to be on board any
        vessel or aircraft, being documents relating to any goods
        therein, to be brought to him or her for inspection, and, if
        he or she has reasonable grounds for believing that those
        goods are liable to forfeiture under this Act, detain any
        such documents;

    (d) break open and forcibly enter any place or receptacle in
         any conveyance to which he or she cannot otherwise
         reasonably obtain access;

    (e) by direction to the master of any vessel in Singapore,
        require the vessel to proceed to any specified anchorage,
        wharf or place to which the vessel may lawfully go;

    (f) by direction to the master of any vessel in Singapore,
        require him or her to move or discharge any cargo or other
        goods therein;

    (g) require the person in charge of a vehicle —

    (i) to stop and not to proceed until so authorised; or

    (ii) to bring the vehicle to any police station or
         examination station;

    (h) direct that the removal of any goods from or placed in any
         vessel be prohibited until so authorised; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      36

          (i) require the master of any vessel or the pilot of any aircraft
              to produce a complete manifest of the whole cargo of the
              vessel or aircraft and a complete list of stores carried by
              that vessel or aircraft.

 (3) An authorised officer may exercise, in respect of any vehicle, or
of any vessel not exceeding 75 tons net tonnage, the powers which are
conferred upon a senior authorised officer by subsection (2) other
than the powers conferred by paragraph (d) of that subsection.

 (4) It is presumed in any proceedings arising out of any thing done
under this section, unless the contrary is proved, that any authorised
officer, not being a senior authorised officer, by whom the thing was
done was acting in accordance with the general or special direction of
a senior authorised officer.

 (5) If any vessel or aircraft fails to comply with any lawful
requisition or direction given or made under this section, a senior
authorised officer may take all such steps as appear to him or her
necessary to secure such compliance.

 (6) Where any goods are found concealed, or in respect of which
any document which ought to be produced is not produced, in any
vessel or aircraft or which are not shown on any manifest or list
required to be produced, being goods —

(a) the import, export, carriage coastwise, shipment as ships’
     stores, carriage as aircraft stores or transhipment of which
     is prohibited, either absolutely or conditionally by any
     regulations made under section 3; or

(b) the transit through Singapore of which —

          (i) a requirement to inspect goods on board the vessel or
              aircraft is imposed pursuant to any written law giving
              effect to any relevant decision of the United Nations
              Security Council; and

          (ii) is prohibited, either absolutely or conditionally by
               any regulations made under section 3,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

37  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

the goods may be seized by an authorised officer and are liable to
forfeiture in the same manner as if an offence had been committed in
respect of the goods.

                                                                                                           [16/2018]

 (7) Any person who contravenes this section or who fails to comply
with any lawful requisition or direction given or made thereunder
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $6,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (8) An authorised officer may exercise the powers conferred by this
section in respect of a vessel underway if —

    (a) the authorised officer reasonably suspects that any goods
         on board the vessel are intended to be landed or
         transhipped in Singapore; or

    (b) the goods on board the vessel are in transit through
         Singapore and a requirement to inspect goods on board the
         vessel is imposed pursuant to any written law giving effect
         to any relevant decision of the United Nations Security
         Council.

                                                                                                     [16/2018]

Examination of packages, etc.

 17.—(1) Where any package, box, chest or other article is in
Singapore and —

       (a) a reasonable suspicion exists that it is being, or is about to
            be, or has recently been imported, exported, carried
            coastwise, shipped as ships’ stores, carried as aircraft
            stores or transhipped in contravention of the provisions of
            any regulations made under section 3;

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

      (aa) a reasonable suspicion exists that it contains goods in
            respect of which a false trade information certificate has
            been issued; or

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

       (b) is in transit through Singapore on board a vessel and a
            requirement to inspect goods on board the vessel is

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      38

          imposed pursuant to any written law giving effect to any
          relevant decision of the United Nations Security Council,

the enforcement powers mentioned in subsection (2) may be
exercised by the person conferred those powers under that
subsection in relation to the package, box, chest or other article.

                                                                                                           [16/2018]

 (2) Any package, box, chest or other article mentioned in
subsection (1) —

(a) may be examined and searched by any authorised officer
     and may be detained until any person in charge of the
     package, box, chest or other article has opened it for
     examination and search;

(b) may be forcibly opened by, or by order of, a senior
     authorised officer to facilitate the examination and search
     except that any person in charge of the package, box, chest
     or other article is to be afforded every reasonable facility
     for being present at the opening, examination and search;
     or

       (c) may be marked, locked, sealed or otherwise secured by any
            authorised officer pending examination and search.

                                                                                                           [16/2018]

 (3) Any person (not being an authorised officer) who removes,
opens, breaks or tampers with any lock, seal or other means of
securing any package, box, chest or other article shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$6,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

                                                                                                           [16/2018]

Powers in relation to examination of goods

 18.—(1) If any goods are found in Singapore and —

       (a) there is reason to believe that the goods are being, or are
            about to be, or have recently been imported, exported,
            carried coastwise, shipped as ships’ stores, carried as

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

39  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

          aircraft stores or transhipped in contravention of the
          provisions of any regulations made under section 3;

                                                                           [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

    (aa) there is reason to believe that a false trade information
          certificate has been issued in respect of the goods; or

                                                                           [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

     (b) are in transit through Singapore on board a vessel and a
          requirement to inspect goods on board the vessel is
          imposed pursuant to any written law giving effect to any
          relevant decision of the United Nations Security Council,

the enforcement powers mentioned in subsection (2) may be
exercised by the person conferred those powers under that
subsection in relation to those goods.

                                                                                                           [16/2018]

 (2) Any —

    (a) authorised officer may examine any goods mentioned in
         subsection (1); and

    (b) senior authorised officer may take samples of any goods
         mentioned in subsection (1) and may submit the goods or
         samples, or cause them to be submitted, to such tests or
         analysis as the senior authorised officer may think fit.

                                                                                                     [16/2018]

Power to remove packages and goods to police station or
examination station

 19.—(1) For the more convenient exercise of the powers conferred
by sections 17 and 18, an authorised officer may remove any package,
box, chest or other article or any goods to a police station or
examination station or may require it to be so removed by the owner
thereof or the owner’s agent or any person having the custody, charge
or control thereof.

 (2) Any person who fails to comply with any such requisition shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $6,000.

 (3) Upon the failure by a person to comply with such a requisition,
an authorised officer may remove the goods in the manner provided

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      40

by subsection (1) and all the expenses of the removal (as certified by
the Director‑General) are recoverable as a fine from that person or
from the owner of the goods.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

Power to require packages to be brought to examination
station for examination

 20.—(1) Where a senior authorised officer has reason to suspect
that —

       (a) any particulars, information or document provided
            pursuant to any regulations made under section 3 or 10I
            is inaccurate; or

       (b) a false trade information certificate has been issued,

any package to which the particulars, information or document or
false trade information certificate refers may be opened and examined
by the senior authorised officer or by any person specially authorised
in writing by the Director‑General.

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

 (2) For the purpose of examination under subsection (1), the senior
authorised officer or any person specifically authorised in writing by
the Director‑General may require the importer or exporter to bring the
package to any examination station.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

 (3) The cost of bringing any package to or removing any package
from an examination station pursuant to subsection (2) must be borne
by the importer or exporter if the particulars, information or
documents furnished (or any of them) are found to be substantially
inaccurate.

Search of persons and baggage

 21.—(1) Any person landing or being about to land or having
recently landed from any vessel or aircraft, or leaving any vessel or
aircraft in Singapore whether for the purpose of landing or otherwise,
or entering or having recently entered Singapore by land, sea or air, or
being about to leave Singapore by land, sea or air, must —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

41  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

    (a) on demand by an authorised officer, either permit his or her
         person and goods and baggage to be searched by the officer
         or, together with the goods and baggage, accompany the
         officer to a police station or an examination station, and
         there permit his or her person and goods and baggage to be
         searched in the presence and under the supervision of a
         senior authorised officer; or

    (b) on demand by a senior authorised officer, permit his or her
         person and goods and baggage to be searched by the officer
         or in the presence and under the supervision of the officer.

 (2) Whenever it is necessary to cause a woman to be searched, the
search must be made by another woman and with strict regard to
decency.

 (3) The goods and baggage of any person who requests to be
present when they are searched must not be searched except in his or
her presence, unless he or she fails to be present after being given
reasonable facility for being present.

 (4) Any person who refuses to comply with any lawful demand
made under this section may be arrested without warrant by the
officer making the demand.

Search warrants

 22.—(1) This section applies if it appears to any Magistrate upon
information, and after any inquiry which he or she thinks necessary,
that there is probable cause to believe that in any dwelling house,
shop or other building or place, there is or are concealed or
deposited —

       (a) goods or property liable to forfeiture under this Act;

       (b) goods or property as to which any offence under this Act or
            any regulations made under this Act has been committed;

       (c) books, records, documents or other articles, directly or
            indirectly, relating to any transaction or dealing in any
            goods or property mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      42

(d) books, records, documents or other articles, directly or
     indirectly, relating to any false trade information
     certificate;

          (e) any computers or associated devices, or mobile
              communication devices, containing or to which is
              available any data relating to any transaction or dealing
              in any goods or property mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b);
              or

        (f) any cash that may afford evidence as to the commission of
            an offence under this Act or any regulations made under
            this Act.

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

 (1A) The Magistrate may issue a warrant authorising any senior
authorised officer, by day or by night and with or without any
assistance —

(a) to enter the dwelling house, shop or other building or place
     and there to search for and seize —

          (i) any goods or property reasonably suspected to be
              goods or property mentioned in subsection (1)(a)
              or (b);

          (ii) any books, records, documents or other articles
               reasonably suspected to be books, records,
               documents or other articles mentioned in
               subsection (1)(c) or (d);

          (iii) any computers or associated devices, or mobile
                communication devices, reasonably suspected to be
                computers or associated devices, or mobile
                communication devices, mentioned in
                subsection (1)(e); and

          (iv) any cash reasonably suspected to be cash mentioned
               in subsection (1)(f);

(b) to inspect the operation of, and any data contained in or
     available to, anything mentioned in paragraph (a)(iii);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

43  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

    (c) to, without payment, make copies of, or take extracts
        from —

    (i) anything mentioned in paragraph (a)(ii); or

    (ii) any data contained in or available to anything
         mentioned in paragraph (a)(iii); and

       (d) to take any reasonable steps to preserve anything
            mentioned in paragraph (a)(ii), (iii) or (iv).

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

 (2) The senior authorised officer mentioned in subsection (1) may if
it is necessary to do so —

    (a) break open any outer or inner door of the dwelling house,
         shop or other building or place and enter thereinto;

    (b) forcibly enter the place and every part thereof;

    (c) remove by force any obstruction to any entry, search,
        seizure and removal that he or she is empowered to effect;
        and

    (d) detain every person found in the place until the place has
         been searched.

 (3) In this section, “data” includes any computer program or
computer software installed in a computer and any computer output
(within the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Computer Misuse
Act 1993).

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

When search may be made without warrant

 23.—(1) This section applies if —

       (a) it appears to any senior authorised officer that there is
            probable cause to believe that in any dwelling house, shop
            or other building or place, there is or are concealed or
            deposited —

               (i) any goods or property mentioned in section 22(1)(a)
                   or (b);

              (ii) any books, records, documents or other articles
                   mentioned in section 22(1)(c) or (d);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      44

          (iii) any computers or associated devices, or mobile
                communication devices, mentioned in
                section 22(1)(e); or

          (iv) any cash mentioned in section 22(1)(f); and

(b) the senior authorised officer has reasonable grounds to
     believe that, by reason of any delay in obtaining a search
     warrant, anything mentioned in paragraph (a) is likely to
     be removed.

 (2) The senior authorised officer may exercise in, upon and in
respect of that dwelling house, shop or other building or place —

(a) all the powers mentioned in section 22 as if the senior
     authorised officer were authorised to do so by a warrant
     issued under that section, except in relation to any
     computer or associated device; and

(b) all the powers mentioned in section 24 with respect to any
     computer or associated device.

                                                                    [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

Inspection of computers and associated devices in connection
with exercise of powers under section 22 or 23

 24.—(1) This section applies where a senior authorised officer
exercises any power under a warrant under section 22 or any power
under section 23.

 (2) The senior authorised officer (called in this section O) may, in
connection with the exercise of any power mentioned in
subsection (1), do all or any of the following in respect of any
computer or associated device found in or at the dwelling house, shop
or other building or place concerned, as the case may be:

       (a) inspect the operation of the computer or associated device,
            and any data contained in or available to it, if O reasonably
            believes that the computer or associated device contains
            data, or data is available to it, that —

               (i) relates to any transaction or dealing in any of the
                   goods or property mentioned in section 22 or 23, as
                   the case may be; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                   Regulation of Imports

45                 and Exports Act 1995                       2020 Ed.

    (ii) is evidential material that is relevant to an offence
         under this Act or regulations made under this Act, or
         any breach of the provisions of this Act or
         regulations made under this Act;

    (b) require —

    (i) the person by whom or on whose behalf the
        computer or associated device is or has been so
        used; or

    (ii) any person having charge of, or otherwise concerned
         with the operation of, the computer or associated
         device,

    (b) to provide O with any reasonable assistance that O may
         require for the purpose of paragraph (a);

    (c) without payment, make copies of, or take extracts from,
        any data contained in or available to the computer or
        associated device;

    (d) without payment, take possession of the computer or
         associated device where, in O’s opinion —

    (i) the inspection of the computer or associated device,
        or the inspection or copying of or the taking of any
        extract from, any data contained in or available to the
        computer or associated device, cannot reasonably be
        performed without taking possession;

    (ii) the computer or associated device may be interfered
         with or destroyed unless possession is taken; or

    (iii) the computer or associated device may be required as
          evidence in proceedings instituted or commenced for
          any purpose of, or in connection with, this Act;

    (e) take onto the premises any equipment and material that O
        requires for the purpose of exercising any power under this
        section;

    (f) operate any electronic equipment on the premises for the
        purpose of exercising any power under this section.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      46

 (3) In this section, “data” includes any computer program or
computer software installed in a computer and any computer output
(within the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Computer Misuse
Act 1993).

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

Inspection of computers and associated devices in connection
with exercise of powers under section 19, 20 or 28A

 24A. In connection with the exercise of the powers in section 19, 20
or 28A(5), any authorised officer —

       (a) is entitled at any time to have access to, and inspect and
            check the operation of, any computer or associated device
            which is or has been in use in connection with any
            particulars, information or document —

               (i) relating to goods to which section 19 refers; or

              (ii) to which section 20 or 28A(5) refers; and

       (b) may require —

               (i) the person by whom or on whose behalf the
                   computer is or has been so used; or

              (ii) any person having charge of, or otherwise concerned
                   with the operation of, the computer or associated
                   device,

       (b) to provide the authorised officer with such reasonable
            assistance as he or she may require for the purposes of
            paragraph (a).

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

Procedure governing seizure of computer, etc., other than
certain goods

 24B.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), sections 370, 371 and 372 of
the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 apply, with the necessary
modifications, when any authorised officer seizes any computer or
associated device, mobile communication device or cash under any
provision of this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

47  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to computers or associated
devices, or mobile communication devices, that are goods —

    (a) in respect of which there has been committed, or there is
         reasonable cause to suspect that there has been
         committed —

    (i) any offence under this Act or any regulations made
        under this Act; or

    (ii) any breach of the provisions of this Act or any
         regulations made under this Act; and

    (b) that are seized under any provision of this Act.

                                                                        [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

Powers of authorised officers to enter certain premises

 25.—(1) For the purpose of exercising the powers conferred by
sections 17 to 22, an authorised officer or a senior authorised officer
(as the case may be) may, without warrant, enter upon any islet,
landing place, wharf, dock, railway or quay or the premises of a
provider of port services or facilities licensed or exempted under the
Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore Act 1996 or the Civil
Aviation Authority of Singapore.

                                                                                                                [6/97]

 (2) [Deleted by Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

Powers of arrest and search

 26. An authorised officer may arrest without warrant any person
whom he or she has reason to believe to be committing or to have
committed an offence under this Act or any regulations made under
this Act, and may search any person so arrested (except that a woman
must be searched only by another woman and with strict regard to
decency) and may seize any article which he or she considers
necessary to seize as evidence of the commission of the offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
             Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.     and Exports Act 1995                                   48

Obstruction

27.—(1) Any person who —

(a) refuses any authorised officer access to any vessel, aircraft,
     vehicle or place which the officer is entitled under this Act
     or any regulations made under this Act; or

(b) obstructs or hinders any authorised officer in the execution
     of any duty imposed or power conferred upon that officer
     by this Act or any regulations made under section 3,

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                    [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

 (2) Any person who, with the intent to delay or obstruct the carrying
out of an investigation, alters, suppresses, conceals or destroys any
books, records, documents or other articles which —

(a) the Director-General or any authorised officer may inspect,
     copy, make extracts of or take possession of under this Act
     or any regulations made under this Act; or

(b) the person is or is liable to be required to give or produce to
     the Director-General or any authorised officer under this
     Act or any regulations made under this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                    [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) or (2)
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $15,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

(4) In subsection (2), “investigation” means an investigation —

(a) to detect and investigate any offence under this Act or
     regulations made under this Act; or

(b) to determine if a person has contravened or is contravening
     any provision of or requirement under this Act or any
     regulations made under this Act, the contravention of
     which is not an offence under this Act or those regulations.

                                                                    [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

49  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

Penalty for false declarations, etc.

 28.—(1) Any person who, being required by or by virtue of this Act
or any regulations made under this Act to make any declaration,
statement or representation or to produce any certificate, undertaking
or document, or who, for the purpose of obtaining any certificate,
licence, permit, sanction, authority or concession under this Act or
any of its regulations or of establishing any proposition of fact
relevant to the administration of this Act or any of its regulations —

    (a) makes or presents any declaration, statement or
         representation or furnish any information which is false
         in a material particular; or

    (b) produces any certificate, undertaking or document which is
         false in any material particular, or has not been given by the
         person by whom it purports to have been given, or has been
         in any way altered or tampered with,

shall be guilty of an offence, unless he or she proves that he or she had
taken all reasonable steps to ascertain, and satisfy himself or herself
of, the truth and genuineness thereof, and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (2) A declaration, statement, representation, certificate,
undertaking or document mentioned in subsection (1) purporting to
be furnished on behalf of any person is, for the purposes of this Act or
any regulations made under this Act, presumed, until the contrary is
proved, to have been furnished by that person or by that person’s
authority (as the case may be) and any person signing such
declaration, statement, representation, certificate, undertaking or
document is deemed to be cognizant of all matters therein.

Penalty for incorrect trade descriptions

 28A.—(1) Any person who imports, exports or tranships any goods
and —

       (a) applies or causes to be applied to the goods an incorrect
            trade description; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      50

(b) has in the person’s possession for sale or for any purpose of
     trade any goods to which an incorrect trade description has
     been applied,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

          (c) in respect of a first offence, to a fine not exceeding
              $100,000 or 3 times the value of the goods in respect of
              which the offence was committed, whichever is the greater,
              or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
              both; and

       (d) in respect of a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not
            exceeding $200,000 or 4 times the value of the goods in
            respect of which the offence was committed, whichever is
            the greater, or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [28/2003]

 (2) For the purpose of subsection (1), a person is treated as applying
a trade description to goods if the person —

(a) affixes or annexes the trade description to, or in any
     manner marks the trade description on or incorporates it
     with —

          (i) the goods themselves; or

          (ii) anything in, on or with which the goods are supplied;

(b) places the goods in or with anything that the trade
     description has been affixed or annexed to, marked on or
     incorporated with or places any such thing with the goods;
     or

       (c) uses the trade description in any manner likely to be taken
            as referring to the goods.

                                                                                                           [28/2003]

 (3) For the purpose of subsection (1), where the goods are for
export or transhipment and the ultimate destination of the goods is a
foreign country which has entered into a prescribed agreement with
Singapore, a trade description applied to such goods is treated as

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

51  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

being incorrect if it is not in accordance with any rules of origin
specified in that agreement.

                                                                                                           [28/2003]

 (4) For the purpose of subsection (1), a person mentioned in that
subsection is treated as being in possession of goods if the person is in
any way entitled to the custody or control of those goods.

                                                                                                           [28/2003]

 (5) Without affecting the provisions of this Act, for the purpose of
determining whether an offence under subsection (1) is being or has
been committed, an authorised officer may —

    (a) at any reasonable time enter upon the premises of any
         person mentioned in subsection (1) and carry out an
         inspection of those premises; and

    (b) require any person —

    (i) to furnish any information within the person’s
        knowledge; or

            (ii) to produce for inspection any book or document
                  within the person’s custody or possession, and to
                  provide copies of or extracts from such book or
                  document.

                                                                                                         [28/2003]

(6) In this section —

    “foreign country” means any country or territory outside
       Singapore;

    “prescribed agreement” means an agreement between Singapore
       and a foreign country which is prescribed as an agreement for
       the purpose of subsection (3);

    “trade description” means any description, statement or
       indication which, directly or indirectly and by whatever
       means given, relates to the place of origin, manufacture or
       production of the goods.

                                                              [28/2003]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      52

Penalty for unauthorised modification of computer program or
data

 29.—(1) Any person who, without the authority of the
Director‑General —

(a) destroys, damages, erases or otherwise manipulates data
     stored in, or used in connection with, a computer;

(b) introduces into, or records or stores in, a computer by any
     means data for the purpose of —

          (i) destroying, damaging, erasing or altering other data
              stored in that computer; or

          (ii) interfering with, interrupting or obstructing the
               lawful use of that computer or the data stored in
               that computer; or

          (c) otherwise uses a computer,

the purpose or effect of which is to avoid, evade, defeat or reduce any
prohibition, restriction or control of the import, export, transhipment
or transit of any goods imposed or which would otherwise have been
imposed by this Act or any regulations made under this Act, shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), “data” includes any
computer program or part of a computer program being a program,
whether or not approved by the Director‑General, for use in relation
to the computer service established under section 8.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

General powers to call for information as to goods

 30.—(1) The Director‑General may require the following persons
to produce any document and furnish any information the
Director‑General considers necessary for the effective exercise of
the Director‑General’s powers and performance of the
Director‑General’s duties under this Act or any regulations made
under this Act:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

53  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

    (a) any person by or on whose behalf goods have been, or are
         in the course of being, or are about to be —

    (i) imported, exported, carried coastwise, shipped as
        ships’ stores, carried as aircraft stores, or
        transhipped; or

    (ii) brought in transit through Singapore on board a
         vessel and a requirement to inspect goods on board
         the vessel is imposed pursuant to any written law
         giving effect to any relevant decision of the United
         Nations Security Council;

       (b) any person who is or has been concerned or interested in
            those goods or in their import, export, carriage coastwise,
            shipment as ships’ stores, carriage as aircraft stores,
            transhipment, or transit through Singapore;

                                                                                                           [16/2018]

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

       (c) any authorised certificate issuer;

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

       (d) any person to whom a trade information certificate has
            been issued by another person who is or purports to be the
            Director‑General or an authorised certificate issuer
            authorised under section 10A(2)(a).

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

 (2) Any such requisition under subsection (1) may be made
verbally or in writing or by an electronic notice served on the
person to whom it is addressed.

 (3) Every person required to produce any document or furnish any
information must produce the document or furnish the information in
such form and manner and within such time as may be specified in the
requisition or if no time is so stated within a reasonable time.

 (4) Any person who, without lawful excuse, fails to comply with
any requisition under this section shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $6,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      54

 (5) Any information given in compliance with this section may be
admissible in evidence as proof against the person giving the
information or the person’s principal in any prosecution, even though
it may tend to incriminate one or the other.

Information not to be published or disclosed

 31.—(1) No particulars, information or document furnished for the
purposes of this Act or any regulations made under this Act may
unless with the prior consent in writing of the person having the
control, management or superintendence of the goods in relation to
which the same was given or furnished, or (in the case of particulars,
information or document furnished for an application for a trade
information certificate) the person having the control, management or
superintendence of the goods in respect of which the application is
made —

       (a) be published; or

       (b) be communicated or disclosed to any person,

except where it is necessary for the purposes of —

       (c) a prosecution under this Act or any regulations made under
            this Act;

       (d) enabling an authorised officer or a public officer to enforce
            a provision of this Act or any regulations made under this
            Act;

       (e) enabling an authorised officer or a public officer to
            investigate a suspected offence under this Act or any
            regulations made under this Act;

        (f) a prosecution of such offence under such written law (other
            than this Act) as may be prescribed;

       (g) enabling a public agency to enforce any provision of
            written law (other than this Act) that may be prescribed;

       (h) enabling a public agency to investigate a suspected offence
            under any provision of written law (other than this Act)
            that may be prescribed;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

55  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

    (i) subject to subsection (2), enabling a public agency to
        discharge its function, duty or power of collecting,
        compiling and analysing the particulars or information,
        and —

    (i) providing its collection, compilation or analysis to
        another public agency for policy formulation or
        review by that other public agency; or

    (ii) publishing its collection, compilation or analysis in
         any form that will not identify, and is not reasonably
         capable of being used to identify, any person to
         which the information or particulars relate;

    (j) subject to subsection (2), enabling a public agency to take
        steps to protect individuals and communities from risks or
        threats to public health or safety, or to protect against risks
        or threats to the security of Singapore (including her
        financial and economic security);

    (ja) enabling a Suspicious Transaction Reporting Officer to
         carry out any of the responsibilities of the Suspicious
         Transaction Reporting Office, including for the purpose of
         detecting the possible commission of an offence specified
         in the First, Second or Third Schedule to the Corruption,
         Drug Trafficking and Other Serious Crimes (Confiscation
         of Benefits) Act 1992;

                                                                          [Act 24 of 2024 wef 14/11/2024]

     (k) satisfying a request for information under section 353 of
         the Copyright Act 2021, section 59B or 67D of the
         Geographical Indications Act 2014, section 68I of the
         Registered Designs Act 2000*, or section 85B or 93E of the
         Trade Marks Act 1998;

                                                                          [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

     (l) enabling a foreign government authority to investigate a
         suspected offence committed in a foreign country, where
         the conditions specified in subsection (8) are satisfied; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      56

      (m) complying with any provision of any prescribed
            agreement, where the conditions specified in
            subsection (9) are satisfied.

                                                                         [28/2003; 3/2014; 34/2018; 22/2021]

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

 (2) No particulars, information or document mentioned in
subsection (1) may be published, disclosed or communicated
pursuant to paragraph (i) and (j) of that subsection except with the
approval of the Minister.

                                                                                                             [3/2014]

 (3) The approval of the Minister mentioned in subsection (2) may
be given in respect of —

(a) a specific public agency or a class of public agencies; and

       (b) a specific request for particulars, information or
            documents, or requests for particulars, information or
            documents falling within such class as the Minister may in
            his or her approval specify.

                                                                                                             [3/2014]

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (1)(j), the particulars or
information in question may be provided to the public agency
through another public agency.

                                                                                                             [3/2014]

 (5) Nothing in subsection (1) prevents the Minister, and any public
officer assisting the Minister and duly authorised by the Minister for
the purposes of this subsection, from having access to any particulars,
information or document mentioned in subsection (1) that may be
necessary for the performance of his or her official duties in
connection with this Act or the advancement or development of trade.

                                                                                                             [3/2014]

 (6) Any authorised certificate issuer, any authorised officer or any
person employed or engaged in the administration of this Act or any
regulations made under this Act who makes use of, publishes or
permits any other person to see or communicates or discloses to any
other person the contents of any particulars, information or
document, otherwise than with such consent or for such purpose as
is mentioned in subsection (1), shall be guilty of an offence and shall

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

57  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $6,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

 (7) Any person, having possession of any information which to the
person’s knowledge has been communicated, disclosed or published
in contravention of this section, who publishes or communicates that
information to any other person shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $6,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

(8) The conditions mentioned in subsection (1)(l) are as follows:

    (a) there exists a treaty or memorandum of understanding
         between Singapore and the government of the foreign
         country in respect of matters under this Act or any
         regulations made under this Act and a request has been
         made by the foreign government authority pursuant to the
         treaty or memorandum of understanding;

    (b) the investigations involve a citizen or permanent resident
         of Singapore or a company incorporated in Singapore;

    (c) the suspected offence which is the subject of the
        investigation constitutes an offence against the law of or
        of a part of, a foreign country and the equivalent act or
        omission would, if it had occurred in Singapore, have
        constituted an offence under this Act or any regulations
        made under this Act or under any other written law that the
        Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, prescribe;

    (d) the seriousness of the suspected offence is of sufficient
         gravity and the information requested is of sufficient
         importance to the investigation;

    (e) the foreign government has agreed to provide reciprocal
        assistance in such matters to Singapore;

    (f) the communication or disclosure is not likely to prejudice
        the sovereignty, security or other essential interests of
        Singapore;

    (g) it is appropriate in the public interest to give the
         information sought;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      58

(h) the foreign authority undertakes that the information given
     must not be used for any other purpose except for the
     investigation of the suspected offence or for the
     prosecution of the offender concerned;

      (i) the Minister has given his or her consent in writing to the
           publication, communication or disclosure.

                                                                                                           [3/2014]

(9) The conditions mentioned in subsection (1)(m) are as follows:

(a) the particulars, information or documents requested by the
     foreign country are available to the Director-General;

(b) unless the Government otherwise allows, the foreign
     country undertakes to keep the information given
     confidential at all times;

      (c) the disclosure of the information is not likely to prejudice
           the essential security interests of Singapore.

                                                                                               [28/2003; 3/2014]

(10) In this section —

“foreign country” means any country or territory outside
   Singapore;

“prescribed agreement” means an agreement between Singapore
   and a foreign country which is prescribed as an agreement for
   the purpose of subsection (1)(m);

“public agency” means a public officer, an organ of state or a
   ministry or department of the Government, or a public
   authority established by or under any public Act for a public
   purpose or a member, an officer or an employee, or any
   department, thereof;

                                                                       [Act 24 of 2024 wef 14/11/2024]

“Suspicious Transaction Reporting Office” means the office
   mentioned in section 5(1) of the Corruption, Drug
   Trafficking and Other Serious Crimes (Confiscation of
   Benefits) Act 1992;

                                 [Act 24 of 2024 wef 14/11/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

59  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

    “Suspicious Transaction Reporting Officer” means a Suspicious
       Transaction Reporting Officer as defined in section 2(1) of
       the Corruption, Drug Trafficking and Other Serious Crimes
       (Confiscation of Benefits) Act 1992 who is a Commercial
       Affairs Officer appointed under section 64 of the Police
       Force Act 2004.

                                            [28/2003; 3/2014]
                           [Act 24 of 2024 wef 14/11/2024]

Abetment and attempts

 32. Any person who abets, within the meaning given by the Penal
Code 1871, and any person who attempts to commit any offence,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to the
same punishment as that provided for the offence so abetted or
attempted.

Jurisdiction of courts

 33. A District Court or a Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to hear
and determine all prosecutions for offences under this Act or any
regulations made under this Act; and a District Court, despite
anything to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, has
jurisdiction to impose the full penalty or punishment under this Act or
any regulations made under this Act.

Power of Minister to remit penalties and restore goods seized
or forfeited

 34. The Minister may direct the remission or refund of the whole or
any part of any penalty incurred or imposed under this Act or any
regulations made under this Act and the restoration of the whole or
any portion of any goods or articles seized or ordered to be forfeited
under this Act or any regulations made under this Act to any person
from whom they have been taken.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

Conduct of prosecution

 35. Any prosecution in respect of an offence under this Act may,
with the authorisation of the Public Prosecutor, be conducted by any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      60

person authorised in writing by the Director‑General to conduct the
prosecution.

                                                                                                 [6/2003; 15/2010]

Offences by corporations and liability for acts of agents or
employees

 36.—(1) Where —

       (a) an offence under this Act or any regulations made under
            this Act is committed by a body corporate; and

       (b) it is proved to have been committed with the consent or
            connivance of, or to be attributable to any act or default on
            the part of, any director, manager, secretary or other similar
            officer of the body corporate, or any person who was
            purporting to act in any such capacity,

he or she, as well as the body corporate, shall be guilty of that offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Whenever any agent or employee in the course of his or her
employment does or omits to do an act, the doing of which or
omission to do which by his or her principal or employer would be an
offence, the agent or employee shall be guilty of that offence.

 (3) In any proceedings jointly against the body corporate and a
director or officer thereof for an offence under this Act, any evidence
that the body corporate was guilty of such an offence is deemed to be
evidence that the director or officer was guilty of that offence.

 (4) Any person who would have been guilty of an offence if
anything had been done or omitted to be done by the person
personally shall be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to the
same penalty if that thing had been done or omitted to be done by the
person’s partner, agent or employee in the course of the partnership
business or in the scope of the person’s employment (as the case may
be) unless the person proves to the court’s satisfaction that the offence
was committed without the person’s knowledge and that the person
took all reasonable precautions to prevent that act or omission.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
    Regulation of Imports

61  and Exports Act 1995                                      2020 Ed.

Protection of informers

 37.—(1) Subject to this section, no evidence as to any information
given by an informer in respect of any offence alleged to have been
committed may be admitted in evidence in any civil or criminal
proceedings, and no witness may be obliged or permitted to disclose
the name or address of any informer or state any matter which might
lead to the discovery of the identity of any informer.

 (2) If any book, document, paper or other information which is in
evidence or liable to inspection in any civil or criminal proceedings,
contains any entry in which any informer is named or described or
which might lead to the discovery of the informer’s identity, the court
is to cause all those entries to be concealed from view, erased or
obliterated to the extent necessary to prevent the discovery of the
identity of the informer but no further.

 (3) If, in any civil or criminal proceedings, the court, after full
inquiry into the case, is of the opinion that the informer wilfully made
in any information furnished by the informer a material statement
which the informer knew or believed to be false or did not believe to
be true or the court is of the opinion that justice cannot be fully done
without the discovery of the identity of the informer, it is lawful for
the court to require the production of the original information in any
form that the court may accept, and to permit inquiry and require full
disclosure concerning the informer.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, “informer” includes every
person who is not called as a witness for the prosecution in a criminal
case and who has made any complaint or report or furnished any
information in respect of any offence alleged to have been committed
by any person.

Admissibility of certified true copies of documents

 38. A copy of any document issued by the Director-General or filed
or lodged with the Director-General and certified to be a true copy by
an authorised officer is, in any proceedings under this Act or any
regulations made under this Act, admissible as evidence of the facts
stated or contained in the document.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      62

Composition of offences

 39.—(1) Any senior authorised officer may compound any offence
under this Act or any regulations made under this Act which is
prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a person
reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum not
exceeding —

(a) $1,000 in respect of any offence where the maximum fine
     prescribed for that offence is less than $5,000; and

       (b) $5,000 in respect of any other prescribed offence.

                                                                                                   [6/2003; 3/2014]

 (2) The Minister may make regulations to prescribe the offences
which may be compounded.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

Modification of provisions for cross-border railway
preclearance outside Singapore

 39AA.—(1) The provisions of this Act and any regulations made
under this Act which prohibit or restrict the import of any goods are
modified by and subject to sections 24, 25 and 26 of the Cross-Border
Railways (Border Control Co-location) Act 2026 where a Singapore
controlled item is involved.

 (2) To be clear —

       (a) any reference in section 17 or any regulations made under
            this Act to goods about to be, or recently imported,
            includes a reference to any goods of any person who is
            travelling to Singapore on a pre-cleared train journey and
            who arrives or is due to arrive at the Singapore designated
            area outside Singapore at which pre-clearance procedures
            are carried out, wearing or carrying or apparently having
            possession or immediate control of those goods;

       (b) any reference in section 19 or 20 to a police station or
            examination station is a reference only to any appropriate

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                       Regulation of Imports

63                     and Exports Act 1995                   2020 Ed.

    room or space within the Singapore designated area
    outside Singapore;

    (c) any reference in section 21 or any regulations made under
        this Act to any person entering or having recently entered
        Singapore by land includes a reference to any person who
        is travelling to Singapore on a pre-cleared train journey and
        arrives or is due to arrive at the Singapore designated area
        outside Singapore at which pre-clearance procedures are
        carried out;

    (d) sections 21 and 26 and any regulations made under this Act
         that authorises any authorised officer or senior authorised
         officer to arrest an individual do not apply to or in relation
         to any individual until the individual is within Singapore;
         and

    (e) any reference in any provision in Part 4 to the Director-
        General or an authorised officer or a senior authorised
        officer as the provision affects a person within the
        Singapore designated area is a reference only to an
        authorised officer or a senior authorised officer who is a
        Singapore preclearance officer.

(3) In this section —

    “pre-clearance procedures” and “pre-cleared train journey” have
       the meanings given by section 36D of the Immigration Act
       1959;

    “Singapore controlled item”, “Singapore designated area” and
       “Singapore preclearance officer” have the meanings given by
       section 3(1) of the Cross-Border Railways (Border Control
       Co-location) Act 2026.

                                              [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

                        PART 5
                       APPEALS

                                              [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                    Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.            and Exports Act 1995                            64

Appeal to Minister

 39A.—(1) Any person who is aggrieved by a decision of the
Director‑General under this Act or any regulations made under this
Act may appeal to the Minister against the decision in accordance
with this section.

 (2) An appeal under this section must be made in writing within
14 days after the date the decision appealed against is served, and
must provide adequate details of the grounds for the appeal.

 (3) The Minister may reject an appeal of an appellant who fails to
comply with subsection (2).

(4) The Minister may determine an appeal by —

(a) confirming, varying or reversing the Director‑General’s
     decision appealed against; or

(b) requiring the Director-General to reconsider the decision.

(5) The Minister’s decision on an appeal is final.

 (6) Every appellant must be notified of the Minister’s decision
under subsection (4).

 (7) Unless the Minister directs otherwise, an appeal against a
decision mentioned in subsection (1) does not affect the operation of
the decision appealed against or prevent the taking of action to
implement the decision, and the decision appealed against must be
complied with until the determination of the appeal.

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

Designation of others to hear appeals

 39B.—(1) The Minister may designate a Second Minister, Minister
of State or Parliamentary Secretary to hear and determine, in the
Minister’s place, any appeal or a specific appeal under section 39A;
and any reference in that section or section 3(2)(s) to the Minister
includes a reference to the Second Minister, Minister of State or
Parliamentary Secretary so designated for that appeal.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                       Regulation of Imports

65                     and Exports Act 1995   2020 Ed.

(2) In this section —

    “Minister of State” means a Minister of State or Senior Minister
       of State assisting the Minister on matters within the purposes
       of this Act;

    “Parliamentary Secretary” includes a Senior Parliamentary
       Secretary appointed to assist the Minister in the discharge
       of the Minister’s duties and functions under this Act;

    “Second Minister” means the Second Minister to the Minister, if
       any.

                                              [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

                                    PART 6

                             MISCELLANEOUS

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2025 wef 29/09/2026]

Protection from personal liability

 40. No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie personally against
any authorised officer or other person acting under the direction of the
Director‑General for anything which is in good faith done or intended
to be done in the execution or purported execution of this Act or any
regulations made under this Act.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

Deemed public servants

 41. All authorised officers are deemed to be public servants for the
purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

Levy, fees and other charges

 42.—(1) Without affecting any other remedy, any levy, fees or other
charges payable under this Act or any regulations made under this
Act, may be recovered as a debt due to the Government.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

 (2) The Minister may direct the remission or refund of the whole or
any part of any levy, fees or other charges payable under this Act or
any regulations made under this Act.

                                                                                                             [6/2003]

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          Regulation of Imports

2020 Ed.  and Exports Act 1995                                      66

Consent of Public Prosecutor

 43. No court may try an offence under this Act or any regulations
made under this Act except with the consent of the Public Prosecutor.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

Saving of rights of Government

 44. This Act does not affect the exercise of any right or prerogative
of the Government.

                                                                               [45

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                      REGULATION OF IMPORTS

                        AND EXPORTS ACT 1995

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                             PART 1
                    ORDINANCE NO. 33
                (IMPORTS AND EXPORTS)
                (1926 REVISED EDITION)

1. Ordinance I of 1886 — The Registration of Imports and Exports
                                  Ordinance 1886

Bill                  : G.N. No. 685/1885

First Reading         : 29 December 1885

Second Reading        : 12 January 1886

Notice of Amendments  : 14 January 1886

Third Reading         : 14 January 1886

Commencement          : 14 January 1886

2. 1920 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 33 (Imports and Exports)

Operation             : 28 November 1921

3. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 33 (Imports and Exports)

Operation             : 1 August 1926

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                         ii

                                    PART 2
           CONTROL OF IMPORTS AND EXPORTS ACT

              (CHAPTER 56, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

4. Ordinance 43 of 1950 — Control of Imports and Exports
                                    Ordinance, 1950

Bill                     : G.N. No. S 466/1949

First Reading            : 19 October 1949

Second Reading           : 15 November 1949

Select Committee Report  : Council Paper No. 32 of 1950

Notice of Amendments     : 21 November 1950

Third Reading            : 21 November 1950

Commencement             : 8 December 1950

5. G.N. No. S 467/1951 — Legislative Council Resolution

Passed                   : 20 November 1951

Effective                : 8 December 1951

6. G.N. No. S 483/1952 — Legislative Council Resolution

Passed                   : 18 November 1952

Effective                : 8 December 1952

7. G.N. No. S 363/1953 — Legislative Council Resolution

Passed                   : 24 November 1953

Effective                : 8 December 1953

8. G.N. No. S 399/1954 — Legislative Council Resolution

Passed                   : 16 November 1954

Effective                : 8 December 1954

9. G.N. No. S 360/1955 — Legislative Assembly Resolution

Passed                   : 9 November 1955

Effective                : 8 December 1955

10. 1955 Revised Edition — Control of Imports and Exports Ordinance
                                     (Chapter 214)

Operation                : 1 July 1956

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                         iii

11. G.N. No. S 339/1956 — Legislative Assembly Resolution

Passed                   : 4 October 1956

Effective                : 8 December 1956

12. G.N. No. S 274/1957 — Legislative Assembly Resolution

Passed                   : 16 October 1957

Effective                : 8 December 1957

13. Ordinance 31 of 1958 — Legislative Assembly (Presentation of
                                      Subsidiary Legislation) Ordinance, 1958

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above
     Ordinance)

Bill                     : 158/1958

First Reading            : 16 July 1958

Second Reading           : 13 August 1958

Notice of Amendments     : 10 September 1958

Third Reading            : 10 September 1958

Commencement             : 25 September 1958 (section 2 read
                               with the Schedule)

14. G.N. No. S 260/1958 — Legislative Assembly Resolution

Passed                   : 8 October 1958

Effective                : 8 December 1958

15. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 182/1959 — Legislative Assembly Resolution

Passed                   : 11 November 1959

Effective                : 8 December 1959

16. G.N. No. S 293/1960 — Legislative Assembly Resolution

Passed                   : 16 November 1960

Effective                : 8 December 1960

17. Ordinance 27 of 1961 — Control of Imports and Exports (Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1961

Bill                     : Information not available

First, Second and Third  : 20 November 1961
Readings

Commencement             : 1 December 1961

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                      iv

18. Act 6 of 1967 — Control of Imports and Exports (Amendment) Act, 1967

Bill                  : 6/1967

First Reading         : 13 March 1967

Second Reading        : 24 May 1967

Notice of Amendments  : 24 May 1967

Third Reading         : 24 May 1967

Commencement          : 1 June 1967

19. 1970 Revised Edition — Control of Imports and Exports Act
                                     (Chapter 240)

Operation             : 31 July 1971

20. Act 21 of 1973 — Statutes of the Republic of Singapore (Miscellaneous
                             Amendments) Act, 1973

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 16/1973

First Reading         : 7 March 1973

Second and Third Readings : 20 March 1973

Commencement          : 6 April 1973 (section 2 read with the
                            Schedule)

21. Act 34 of 1973 — Statutes of the Republic of Singapore (Miscellaneous
                             Amendments) (No. 3) Act, 1973

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with item (j) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 27/1973

First Reading         : 11 July 1973

Second and Third Readings : 25 July 1973

Commencement          : 24 August 1973 (section 2 read with
                            item (j) of the Schedule)

22. Act 29 of 1982 — Trade Development Board Act, 1982
     (Amendments made by section 35(2) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 21/1982

First Reading         : 31 August 1982

Second and Third Readings : 3 December 1982

Commencement          : 1 January 1983 (section 35(2))

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                      v

23. 1985 Revised Edition — Control of Imports and Exports Act
                                     (Chapter 56)

Operation             : 30 March 1987

                                   PART 3
      REGISTRATION OF IMPORTS AND EXPORTS ACT

            (CHAPTER 270, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

24. Ordinance 18 of 1934 — Registration of Imports and Exports Ordinance,
                                    1934

Bill                  : G.N. No. 325/1934

First Reading         : 12 February 1934

Second Reading        : 16 April 1934

Notice of Amendments  : 16 April 1934

Third Reading         : 16 April 1934

Commencement          : 14 May 1934

25. 1936 Revised Edition — Registration of Imports and Exports Ordinance
                                     (Chapter 41)

Operation             : 1 September 1936

26. 1955 Revised Edition — Registration of Imports and Exports Ordinance
                                     (Chapter 261)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

27. Ordinance 31 of 1958 — Legislative Assembly (Presentation of
                                      Subsidiary Legislation) Ordinance, 1958

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above
     Ordinance)

Bill                  : 158/1958

First Reading         : 16 July 1958

Second Reading        : 13 August 1958

Notice of Amendments  : 10 September 1958

Third Reading         : 10 September 1958

Commencement          : 25 September 1958 (section 2 read
                            with the Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
               vi

28. 1970 Revised Edition — Registration of Imports and Exports Act
                                     (Chapter 298)

Operation      : 31 August 1971

29. Act 29 of 1982 — Trade Development Board Act, 1982
     (Amendments made by section 35(3) of the above Act)

Bill           : 21/1982

First Reading  : 31 August 1982

Second and Third Readings : 3 December 1982

Commencement   : 1 January 1983 (section 35(3))

30. 1985 Revised Edition — Registration of Imports and Exports Act
                                     (Chapter 270)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

                                PART 4
               REGULATION OF IMPORTS AND

                        EXPORTS ACT 1995
                    (2020 REVISED EDITION)

31. Act 24 of 1995 — Regulation of Imports and Exports Act 1995

Bill           : 19/1995

First Reading  : 25 May 1995

Second and Third Readings : 7 July 1995

Commencement   : 1 December 1995

32. Act 7 of 1996 — Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore Act 1996
     (Amendments made by section 121(4) read with item (15) of the Fourth
     Schedule to the above Act)

Bill           : 46/1995

First Reading  : 5 December 1995

Second and Third Readings : 18 January 1996

Commencement   : 2 February 1996 (section 121(4) read
                     with item (15) of the Fourth Schedule)

33. 1996 Revised Edition — Regulation of Imports and Exports Act
                                     (Chapter 272A)

Operation      : 30 April 1996

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
               vii

34. Act 6 of 1997 — Port of Singapore Authority (Dissolution) Act 1997
     (Amendments made by section 15(3) of the above Act)

Bill           : 5/1997

First Reading  : 11 July 1997

Second and Third Readings : 25 August 1997

Commencement   : 1 October 1997 (section 15(3))

35. Act 2 of 1999 — Probate and Administration (Amendment) Act 1999
     (Amendments made by section 6 of the above Act)

Bill           : 48/1998

First Reading  : 23 November 1998

Second and Third Readings : 20 January 1999

Commencement   : 25 February 1999 (section 6)

36. Act 17 of 2002 — Trade Development Board (Amendment) Act 2002
     (Amendments made by section 10(1)(b) of the above Act)

Bill           : 9/2002

First Reading  : 3 May 2002

Second and Third Readings : 8 July 2002

Commencement   : 1 April 2002 (section 10(1)(b))

37. Act 6 of 2003 — International Enterprise Singapore Board (Amendment)
                         Act 2003

     (Amendments made by section 3 read with item (1) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 5/2003

First Reading  : 10 March 2003

Second and Third Readings : 21 March 2003

Commencement   : 1 April 2003 (section 3 read with
                     item (1) of the Schedule)

38. Act 28 of 2003 — Regulation of Imports and Exports (Amendment) Act
                            2003

Bill           : 25/2003

First Reading  : 16 October 2003

Second and Third Readings : 11 November 2003

Commencement   : 1 January 2004

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                viii

39. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 88 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill            : 11/2010

First Reading   : 26 April 2010

Second Reading  : 18 May 2010

Third Reading   : 19 May 2010

Commencement    : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                      item 88 of the Sixth Schedule)

40. Act 3 of 2014 — Regulation of Imports and Exports (Amendment) Act
                           2014

Bill            : 24/2013

First Reading   : 11 November 2013

Second and Third Readings : 21 January 2014

Commencement    : 1 April 2014

41. Act 10 of 2018 — Enterprise Singapore Board Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 74 of the above Act)

Bill            : 3/2018

First Reading   : 8 January 2018

Second and Third Readings : 5 February 2018

Commencement    : 1 April 2018 (section 74)

42. Act 16 of 2018 — Regulation of Imports and Exports (Amendment) Act
                            2018

Bill            : 9/2018

First Reading   : 27 February 2018

Second and Third Readings : 19 March 2018

Commencement    : 1 May 2018

43. Act 4 of 2021 — Statute Law Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 15(14) of the above Act)

Bill            : 45/2020

First Reading   : 3 November 2020

Second and Third Readings : 5 January 2021

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                      ix

Commencement          : 1 March 2021 (section 15(14))

44. Act 22 of 2021 — Copyright Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 507(7) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 17/2021

First Reading         : 6 July 2021

Second Reading        : 13 September 2021

Notice of Amendments  : 13 September 2021

Third Reading         : 13 September 2021

Commencement          : 21 November 2021 (section 507(7))

45. 2020 Revised Edition — Regulation of Imports
                                     and Exports Act 1995

Operation             : 31 December 2021

46. Act 34 of 2018 — Intellectual Property (Border Enforcement) Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 88 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 24/2018

First Reading         : 17 May 2018

Second and Third Readings : 9 July 2018

Commencement          : 10 October 2018 (section 88(1))
                            21 November 2019 (section 88(2))
                            21 November 2022 (section 88(3))

47. Act 24 of 2024 — Anti-Money Laundering and Other Matters Act 2024

Bill                  : 20/2024

First Reading         : 2 July 2024

Second and Third Readings : 6 August 2024

Commencement          : 14 November 2024

48. Act 5 of 2025 — Electronic Gazette and Legislation Act 2025

Bill                  : 47/2024

First Reading         : 11 November 2024

Second and Third Readings : 7 January 2025

Commencement          : 9 March 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
               x

49. Act 26 of 2025 — Regulation of Imports and Exports (Amendment) Act
                            2025

Bill           : 14/2025

First Reading  : 14 October 2025

Second and Third Readings : 6 November 2025

Commencement   : 29 September 2026

50. Act 16 of 2026 — Cross-Border Railways (Border Control Co-location)
                             Act 2026

     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 10/2026

First Reading  : 7 April 2026

Second and Third Readings : 5 May 2026

Commencement   : 30 September 2026

               Abbreviations

.              (updated on 29 August 2022)
               Gazette Notification
G.N.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
G.N. Sp.       Legislative Assembly
L.A.           Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
L.N.           Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
M.             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
               Malaysia)
Parl.          Parliament
S              Subsidiary Legislation
S.I.           Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
S.S.G.G.       Straits Settlements Government Gazette
S.S.G.G. (E)   Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
   COMPARATIVE TABLE

REGULATION OF IMPORTS
 AND EXPORTS ACT 1995

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    1996 Ed.
31—(2)                     31—(1A)

   (3)                        (1B)
   (4)                        (1C)
   (5)                        (1D)
   (6)                        (2)
   (7)                        (3)
   (8)                        (4)
   (9)                        (5)
   (10)                       (6)
[Omitted as spent]         44—(1)
[Omitted as spent]            (2)
[Omitted as spent]            (3)
[Omitted as spent]            (4)
[Omitted as spent]            (5)
—                             (6) [Deleted by Act 4 of 2021]
44                         45

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
