THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                 WORKPLACE SAFETY AND
                        HEALTH ACT 2006

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                                                                   2020 Ed.

         Workplace Safety and
            Health Act 2006

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Application of Act
     1.  Application of Act to Government
     2.
     3.

                                       PART 2

                               INTERPRETATION

4. General interpretation
5. Meanings of “workplace” and “factory”
6. Meanings of “employee” and “employer”

                                       PART 3

                         ADMINISTRATION OF ACT

7. Appointment of Commissioner for Workplace Safety and Health
       and other officers

8. Commissioner, Deputy Commissioners, inspectors, authorised
       officers, etc., to be public servants

9. Identification of inspectors and authorised officers

                                        PART 4

                       GENERAL DUTIES OF PERSONS
                                 AT WORKPLACES

10. Duties according to different capacities
11. Duty of occupier of workplace
12. Duties of employers
12A. Duties of platform operators
13. Duties of self-employed persons

                                                      1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                                  2

Section   Duties of principals
   14.    Additional duties of principals in relation to contractors
   14A.   Duties of persons at work
   15.    Duties of manufacturers and suppliers of machinery, equipment
   16.    or hazardous substances used at work
          Duties of persons who erect, install or modify machinery or
   17.    equipment and persons in control of machinery for use at work
          Other related duties of occupiers, employers and platform
   18.    operators
          Duties of occupiers of common areas
   19.    Offence of breaching duty under this Part
   20.

                                        PART 5

                         POWERS OF COMMISSIONER

21. Power to issue remedial order or stop-work order
22. Appeal from order made by Commissioner
23. Power to suspend certificate

          PART 6

          INVESTIGATIONS, INQUIRIES AND
              REPORTING OF ACCIDENTS,

          DANGEROUS OCCURRENCES AND
               OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES

24.       Investigation into accidents, dangerous occurrences, etc.
25.       Alteration or addition to machinery, equipment, etc.
26.       Minister may direct inquiry to be held
27.       Notification and reporting of accidents, dangerous occurrences,
          etc.
27A.      Learning report of accident, etc.
27B.      Learning report, etc., not admissible in evidence

                                        PART 7

                             SAFETY AND HEALTH
                     MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS

28. Workplace safety and health officers and coordinators
29. Workplace safety and health committees
30. Workplace safety and health auditors
31. Safety and health training courses

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
         Workplace Safety and

3        Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

Section  Requirement for approval of Commissioner to act
         Application for and grant of approval
   32.   Duration of approval
   33.   Cancellation of approval
   34.   Surrender of certificate
   35.   False assumption of title
   36.   Offence under this Part
   37.
   38.

                                           PART 8

                             WORKPLACE SAFETY AND
                                   HEALTH COUNCIL

   39. Establishment of Workplace Safety and Health Council
   40. Powers and proceedings of Council
   40A. Functions of Council
   40B. Codes of practice
   40C. Use of approved codes of practice in criminal proceedings

                                           PART 9

                       INSPECTIONS AND OTHER POWERS
                                   OF ENFORCEMENT

   41. Powers of inspectors
   42. Power to take samples
   43. Power to examine and secure attendance
   44. Competency of inspector as witness
   45. Persons not to reveal protected information

                                          PART 10

                                OFFENCES, PENALTIES
                                  AND PROCEEDINGS

   46. Unregistered factories
   47. Onus of proving what is reasonably practicable
   48. Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
   49. Arrest of person accused of offence under section 15(3) or 21(7)
   50. General penalties
   51. Penalty for repeat offenders
   52. Power of court to order cause of contravention to be remedied
   53. Forgery of certificates, false entries and false declarations
   54. Jurisdiction of court

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           4

Section   When Magistrate may try offence
          Composition of offences
   55.    Power to modify agreements
   56.    Power to apportion expenses
   57.
   58.

                                        PART 11

                                      GENERAL

59. Relation to other laws
60. Civil liability
61. Protection from personal liability
62. Exempt workers, workplaces and equipment, etc.
63. Service of documents, etc.
64. Amendment of Schedules
65. Regulations
66. Saving and transitional provisions

         First Schedule — Dangerous Occurrences
         Second Schedule — Occupational diseases
         Third Schedule — Work of Engineering Construction
         Fourth Schedule — Workplaces Specified As Factories
         Fifth Schedule — Machinery, Equipment or Hazardous

                                   Substances
         Sixth Schedule — Exempt Persons At Work

An Act relating to the safety, health and welfare of persons at work in
  workplaces.

                                                               [1 March 2006]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Workplace Safety and Health Act 2006.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                    Workplace Safety and

5                   Health Act 2006                          2020 Ed.

Application of Act

 2. Except as otherwise provided in this Act (but not the
regulations), the provisions of this Act apply to all workplaces.

                                                                                                            [18/2011]

Application of Act to Government

 3.—(1) Except as provided in subsection (2), this Act binds the
Government and applies to —

       (a) any workplace wholly or partly owned or occupied by the
            Government; and

       (b) any premises in which any building operation or any work
            of engineering construction is carried on by or on behalf of
            the Government.

 (2) Nothing in this Act renders the Government liable to
prosecution for an offence.

 (3) To avoid doubt, a person is not immune from prosecution for
any offence under this Act by reason that the person is engaged to
provide services to the Government.

                                    PART 2

                             INTERPRETATION

General interpretation

 4.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “accredited training provider” means a training provider
         accredited by the Commissioner to provide safety and
         health training courses for the purposes of section 31;

      “air receiver” means —

              (a) any vessel (other than a pipe or coil or an accessory, a
                   fitting or part of a compressor) for containing
                   compressed air and connected with an air
                   compressing plant;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.           Health Act 2006                                  6

          (b) any fixed vessel for containing compressed air and
               used for the purpose of starting an internal
               combustion engine;

          (c) any blast air bottle; or

          (d) any vessel in which any substance in the form of solid
               or liquid is stored and from which it is forced by
               compressed air;

“approved code of practice” means any code of practice issued
   or approved under section 40B, and includes any such code of
   practice as amended from time to time under that section;

“at work” means —

          (a) in relation to an employee, all times when the
               employee is performing work in connection with
               any trade, business, profession or undertaking carried
               on by his or her employer, wherever that work is
               carried out;

          (aa) in relation to a platform worker, all times when the
                platform worker is providing any platform service for
                a platform operator, wherever the platform service is
                provided;

                                                                       [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

           (b) in relation to a self-employed person, all times when
                the person is performing work as a self-employed
                person, wherever the work is carried out; and

          (c) in any other case, all times when the person is
              performing work at the direction of the other person
              who engaged him or her, wherever the work is carried
              out;

“authorised examiner” means any person approved by the
   Commissioner under section 33 for the purpose of carrying
   out any prescribed examination or test of any —

          (a) hoist and lift;

          (b) lifting gear;

          (c) lifting appliance or lifting machine;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
   Workplace Safety and

7  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

   (d) steam boiler;

   (e) steam receiver;

   (f) air receiver;

   (g) refrigerating plant pressure receiver;

   (h) pressure vessel; or

   (i) any other machinery required by this Act to be
       examined or tested by an authorised examiner;

   “bodily injury” includes injury to health, the contraction of a
      disease, and the aggravation, acceleration or recurrence of
      any bodily injury or disease;

   “building” includes —

   (a) the whole or any part of any house or any other
        structure, whether used for the purpose of human
        habitation or otherwise; and

   (b) any structure, support or foundation connected to the
        house or structure mentioned in paragraph (a);

   “building operation” means —

   (a) the construction, structural alteration, repair or
        maintenance of a building (including the rewiring
        of any electrical installation, the replacement of any
        lift, air conditioning plant and ancillary ducting of a
        building, and the repointing, redecoration and
        external cleaning of the structure);

   (b) the demolition of a building; or

   (c) the preparation of a site for, and the laying of
       foundation of, an intended building,

   but does not include any operation which is a work of
   engineering construction;

   “class or description”, in relation to workplaces, includes a
      group of workplaces described by reference to locality;

   “Commissioner” means the Commissioner for Workplace
      Safety and Health appointed under section 7;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.        Health Act 2006                                     8

“contract of service” means any agreement, whether oral or in
   writing, express or implied, whereby any person agrees to
   employ any other person as an employee and that other
   person agrees to serve as the person’s employee, and includes
   a contract of apprenticeship;

“contractor” —

          (a) means a person engaged by another person (called in
               this Act the principal) otherwise than under a contract
               of service —

          (i) to supply any labour for gain or reward; or

          (ii) to do any work for gain or reward,

          (a) in connection with any trade, business, profession or
               undertaking carried on by the principal; but

        (b) does not include a platform worker who provides a
             platform service for a platform operator;

                                                                       [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

“Council” means the Workplace Safety and Health Council
   established under section 39;

“dangerous occurrence” means any occurrence which is
   specified in the First Schedule;

“Deputy Commissioner” means a Deputy Commissioner for
   Workplace Safety and Health appointed under section 7;

“electrical installation” means any cable, wire, fitting,
   accessory, apparatus or other device used for or for
   purposes incidental to the conveyance, control or use of
   electricity;

“employ” means to employ the service of any person to do any
   work under a contract of service, with or without
   remuneration;

“gas” includes any gas in its gaseous or liquid state;

“gas plant” —

          (a) means any plant, apparatus or machine for the
               manufacture or storage of any gas; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
   Workplace Safety and

9  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

   (b) includes pipes and appliances used in carrying any
        gas to the place where the gas is to be used;

   “inspector” means an inspector appointed under section 7(3) and
      includes the Commissioner and any Deputy Commissioner;

   “learning report” means a learning report prepared and
      published under section 27A;

   “lift” includes any lifting appliance or lifting machine used for
      carrying persons, whether together with goods or otherwise;

   “lifting appliance” includes a pulley block, gin wheel, chain
      block or set of chain blocks;

   “lifting gear” includes —

   (a) any chain, rope, chain sling, webbing sling, rope
        sling, ring, hook, shackle, swivel or eyebolt; and

   (b) any cage or work platform used for carrying persons
        while it is suspended from the load line of a crane;

   “lifting machine” includes —

   (a) any crane, crab, winch, teagle, runway, transporter,
        piling frame or piling machine; and

   (b) any work platform or suspended scaffold capable of
        being raised or lowered by climbers, winches or other
        powered device;

   “machinery” includes —

   (a) any oil engine, gas engine, steam engine, and any
        other machine in which mechanical movement, either
        linear or rotated or both, takes place;

   (b) any steam boiler, gas cylinder, air receiver, steam
        receiver, steam container or refrigerating plant
        pressure receiver;

   (c) any appliance for transmission of power by ropes,
       belts, chains, driving straps or bands or gearing; and

   (d) any electrical generator or electrical motor,

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           10

          but does not include any machinery used solely for the
          propulsion of vehicles;

“maintain” means maintain in an efficient state, in efficient
   working order and in good repair;

“mechanical power” means any energy derived from steam,
   water, wind, electricity, compressed air or gas, or the
   combustion of fuel or explosive, which is used to drive or
   work any machinery;

“occupational disease” means any disease specified in the
   Second Schedule and any other disease that is directly
   attributable to any exposure to any chemical or biological
   agent arising out of and in the course of any employment or
   the provision of any platform service, as the case may be;

                                                                       [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

“occupier”, in relation to any premises or part of any premises,
   means —

          (a) in the case of a factory where a certificate of
               registration has to be obtained in relation to the
               premises pursuant to any regulations — the person
               who is, or is required to be, the holder of the
               certificate;

          (b) in the case of a factory where a notification has to be
               submitted in relation to the factory pursuant to any
               regulations — the person who is named in the
               notification, or is required to submit a notification;
               and

          (c) in the case of any other premises — the person who
              has charge, management or control of those premises
              either on the person’s own account or as an agent of
              another person, whether or not the person is also the
              owner of those premises;

“owner”, in relation to any premises, means —

          (a) the person for the time being receiving the rents or
               profits for the lease of the premises, whether on the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

11                       Health Act 2006                      2020 Ed.

    person’s own account or as agent or trustee for any
    other person; or

    (b) the person who would so receive the rents or profits if
         the premises were leased;

    “platform operator” has the meaning given by section 4 of the
       Platform Workers Act 2024;

                                                                           [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

    “platform service” has the meaning given by section 3 of the
       Platform Workers Act 2024;

                                                                           [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

    “platform work agreement” has the meaning given by section 2
       of the Platform Workers Act 2024;

                                                                           [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

    “platform worker” has the meaning given by section 5(1) of the
       Platform Workers Act 2024;

                                                                           [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

    “premises” includes any place whether enclosed or built on or
       not, whether situated underground or underwater and, in
       particular, includes —

    (a) any building, vehicle, vessel or aircraft;

    (b) any structure, whether a fixed structure or a movable
         structure such as a tent; and

    (c) a part of any premises, including a part of premises of
        a kind referred to in paragraph (a) or (b);

    “pressure vessel” —

    (a) means any container or vessel used for containing
         any substance under pressure; and

    (b) includes any steam boiler, steam receiver, steam
         container, air receiver, refrigerating plant pressure
         receiver and gas cylinder;

    “prime mover” means every engine, motor or other appliance
       which provides mechanical energy derived from steam,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                  Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.          Health Act 2006                                   12

          water, wind, electricity, the combustion of fuel or other
          source of energy;

“principal” means a person who, in connection with any trade,
   business, profession or undertaking carried on by the person,
   engages any other person otherwise than under a contract of
   service —

          (a) to supply any labour for gain or reward; or

          (b) to do any work for gain or reward,

   but does not include a platform operator that, in connection
   with the provision of a platform service, engages any
   platform worker under a platform work agreement;

                                                                       [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

“refrigerating plant pressure receiver” means any vessel which
   contains refrigerant under pressure;

“registered medical practitioner” means a person registered or
   deemed to be registered under the Medical Registration
   Act 1997;

“regulations” means regulations made under this Act;

“repealed Act” means the Factories Act (Cap. 104,
   1998 Revised Edition) repealed by this Act;

“self-employed person” —

          (a) means a person who works for gain or reward
               otherwise than under a contract of service, whether
               or not employing others; but

        (b) does not include a platform worker;

                                                                       [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

“ship” includes every description of vessel used in navigation, a
   floating rig, a barge or any platform used in any form of
   operations at sea;

“steam boiler” —

          (a) means any closed vessel in which, for any purpose,
               steam is generated under pressure greater than
               atmospheric pressure; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                       Workplace Safety and

13                     Health Act 2006                        2020 Ed.

    (b) includes any economiser used to heat water being fed
         to any such vessel and any superheater used for
         heating steam;

    “steam container” means any vessel (other than a steam pipe or
       coil) —

    (a) constructed with a permanent outlet into the
         atmosphere or into a space where the pressure does
         not exceed atmospheric pressure; and

    (b) through which steam is passed at atmospheric
         pressure, or at approximately that pressure for the
         purpose of heating, boiling, drying, evaporating or a
         similar purpose;

    “steam receiver” means any vessel or apparatus (other than a
       steam boiler, steam container, steam pipe or coil or a part of a
       prime mover) used for containing steam under pressure
       greater than atmospheric pressure;

    “subcontractor” —

    (a) means a person engaged (otherwise than under a
         contract of service) by any contractor or
         subcontractor —

    (i) to supply any labour for gain or reward; or

    (ii) to do any work for gain or reward,

    (a) which the contractor or subcontractor has been
         engaged as contractor or subcontractor (as the case
         may be) to do; but

            (b) does not include a platform worker who provides a
                 platform service for a platform operator;

                                                                           [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

    “work of engineering construction” means any work specified in
       the Third Schedule;

    “workplace safety and health auditor” means a workplace safety
       and health auditor appointed under section 30;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           14

“workplace safety and health committee” means a workplace
   safety and health committee appointed under section 29;

“workplace safety and health coordinator” means a workplace
   safety and health coordinator appointed under section 28;

    “workplace safety and health officer” means a workplace safety
        and health officer appointed under section 28.

                                                                                              [18/2011; 44/2017]

(2) For the purposes of this Act —

(a) mechanical power is not to be treated as being used in a
     workplace by reason only that mechanical power is used
     for the purpose of heating, ventilating, cooling, air
     conditioning or lighting the workplace or any part
     thereof; and

(b) any reference to the health of a person, where that person is
     pregnant, includes a reference to the health of any unborn
     child which that person is carrying.

 (3) To avoid doubt, a person is to be regarded for the purposes of
this Act as being at work in a workplace whether or not the person is
lawfully at work in that workplace.

Meanings of “workplace” and “factory”

 5.—(1) In this Act, “workplace” means any premises where a
person is at work or is to work, for the time being works, or
customarily works, and includes a factory.

 (2) Subject to this section, “factory” means any premises —

       (a) within which persons are employed in any of the following
            processes:

               (i) the handling, sorting, packing, storing, altering,
                   repairing, construction, processing or
                   manufacturing of any goods or product;

              (ii) the handling, sorting, packing, storing, processing,
                   manufacturing or use of any hazardous substances;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

15  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

    (iii) the repair, construction or manufacturing of any
          vessel or vehicle;

    (iv) any building operation or work of engineering
         construction;

    (v) the operation or maintenance of any facility or
         system related to the provision of any public utility;
         and

    (b) which is specified in the Fourth Schedule.

                                                              [18/2011]

 (3) Where any person carries on any work mentioned in
subsection (2) in a workplace with the express or implied
permission of, or under any agreement with, the occupier of the
workplace, then, even though the person is not an employee of the
occupier of the workplace —

    (a) the workplace is to be treated as a factory for the purposes
         of this Act; and

       (b) the provisions of this Act relating to the duty of an occupier
            apply to the occupier of the workplace as if that occupier
            were the occupier of a factory.

                                                                                                            [18/2011]

 (4) Despite subsection (2), where any place situated within a
factory is solely used for some purpose other than any of the
processes carried on in the factory —

    (a) the place is not to be treated as forming part of the factory
         for the purposes of this Act; but

    (b) the place is, if it would otherwise be a factory, to be treated
         as a separate factory for the purposes of this Act.

 (5) A part of a factory may, with the written approval of the
Commissioner, be treated as a separate factory for the purposes of this
Act.

 (6) Two or more factories may, with the written approval of the
Commissioner, be treated as a single factory for the purposes of this
Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           16

 (7) To avoid doubt, premises are not excluded from the definition of
a “factory” by reason only that they are open air premises.

 (8) Any premises in which work is carried on by or on behalf of the
Government or any statutory board or body are not excluded from the
definition of a “factory” by reason only that the work carried on at the
premises is not carried on by way of trade or for purposes of gain.

Meanings of “employee” and “employer”

 6.—(1) Subject to subsections (2), (3), (4) and (5), in this Act —

      “employee” means any person employed by an employer to do
         any work under a contract of service;

      “employer” means a person who, in the course of the person’s
         trade, business, profession or undertaking, employs any
         person to do any work under a contract of service.

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, any reference to an employee
includes a reference to a volunteer who —

       (a) does work for another person with the knowledge or
            consent of that other person; and

       (b) does the work on an ongoing and regular basis for that
            other person,

being work that is in connection with any trade, business, profession
or undertaking carried on by that other person, and this Act applies —

       (c) as if the volunteer were an employee of the other person;

       (d) as if the other person were the volunteer’s employer; and

       (e) as if the volunteer were at work when doing work for the
            other person.

 (3) For the purposes of this Act, any reference to an employee
includes a reference to a person who is in a workplace for the purpose
of receiving on the job training or gaining work experience, including
under a rehabilitation scheme (called in this subsection person A),
and this Act applies —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
             Workplace Safety and

17           Health Act 2006                                  2020 Ed.

    (a) as if person A were an employee of the person (called in
         this subsection person B) who agreed to provide on the job
         training or work experience;

    (b) as if person B were that person A’s employer; and

    (c) as if person A were at work when in the workplace for the
        purpose of receiving on the job training or gaining work
        experience.

(4) Where —

    (a) an employer places an employee (called in this subsection
         the loaned employee) at the disposal of another person to
         do work for that other person; and

    (b) there is no contractual relationship between the employer
         and that other person regarding the work to be performed
         by the loaned employee,

then, for the purposes of this Act —

    (c) the loaned employee is to be regarded as if he or she were
        an employee of that other person (instead of his or her
        employer) while the loaned employee is at work for that
        other person;

    (d) that other person is to be regarded as if that person were the
         employer of the loaned employee while the loaned
         employee is at work for that other person; and

    (e) the loaned employee is to be regarded as if he or she were
        at work when doing work for that other person.

(5) Where a person carries on any work in a factory —

    (a) the occupier of the factory is deemed to be the employer of
         the person; and

    (b) the provisions of this Act apply as if the occupier of the
         factory were the employer of the person,

unless the occupier of the factory proves that the occupier is not the
employer of the person.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           18

          PART 3

          ADMINISTRATION OF ACT

Appointment of Commissioner for Workplace Safety and
Health and other officers

 7.—(1) The Minister may appoint any person to be the
Commissioner for Workplace Safety and Health, and such other
persons, by name or office, as Deputy Commissioners for Workplace
Safety and Health.

 (2) The Commissioner is, subject to any general or special
directions of the Minister, responsible for the administration of this
Act and may perform such duties as are imposed and may exercise
such powers as are conferred upon the Commissioner by this Act or
any other written law.

 (3) The Commissioner may appoint, by name or office, such
number of persons as inspectors, and such number of other persons as
authorised officers, as may be necessary to assist the Commissioner
in the administration of this Act.

 (4) The Commissioner may, with the approval of the Minister,
delegate the exercise of all or any of the powers conferred or duties
imposed upon the Commissioner by this Act (except the power of
delegation conferred by this subsection) to any Deputy
Commissioner, inspector or authorised officer, subject to such
conditions or limitations as the Commissioner may specify.

 (5) Notice of all appointments made under this section must be
published in the Gazette.

Commissioner, Deputy Commissioners, inspectors, authorised
officers, etc., to be public servants

 8. The Commissioner and every Deputy Commissioner, inspector
and authorised officer appointed under section 7 and every member
of the Council are deemed to be public servants within the meaning of
the Penal Code 1871.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

19  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

Identification of inspectors and authorised officers

9. Every inspector and authorised officer must —

    (a) be provided with a certificate of his or her appointment as
         an inspector or authorised officer, as the case may be; and

    (b) when exercising any powers under this Act, on demand,
         produce the certificate of his or her appointment to the
         person affected by the exercise of those powers.

                        PART 4

    GENERAL DUTIES OF PERSONS
             AT WORKPLACES

Duties according to different capacities

10. To avoid doubt, it is declared that —

    (a) a person may at any one time be 2 or more of the following:

    (i) an employer;

    (ii) a contractor;

    (iii) a subcontractor;

    (iv) a principal;

    (iva) a platform operator;

                                           [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

    (ivb) a platform worker;

                                           [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

    (v) a self-employed person;

    (vi) an occupier of a workplace;

    (vii) a designer, manufacturer or supplier of any
          machinery, equipment or hazardous substance for
          use at work;

    (viii) an erector, installer or a modifier of machinery or
           equipment for use at work;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           20

          (ix) an owner, a hirer or lessee of machinery moved by
               mechanical power or a person who maintains such
               machinery for use at work,

(a) and this Act may impose duties or liabilities on the person
     accordingly;

(b) this Act may at any one time impose the same duty or
     liability on 2 or more persons, whether in the same capacity
     or in different capacities; and

          (c) a duty or liability imposed by this Act on any person is not
              diminished or affected by the fact that it is imposed on one
              or more other persons, whether in the same capacity or in
              different capacities.

Duty of occupier of workplace

 11. It is the duty of every occupier of any workplace to take, so far
as is reasonably practicable, such measures to ensure that —

       (a) the workplace;

       (b) all means of access to or egress from the workplace; and

       (c) any machinery, equipment, plant, article or substance kept
            on the workplace,

are safe and without risks to health to every person within those
premises, whether or not the person is at work or is an employee of
the occupier.

Duties of employers

 12.—(1) It is the duty of every employer to take, so far as is
reasonably practicable, such measures as are necessary to ensure the
safety and health of the employer’s employees at work.

 (2) It is the duty of every employer to take, so far as is reasonably
practicable, such measures as are necessary to ensure the safety and
health of persons (not being the employer’s employees) who may be
affected by any undertaking carried on by the employer in the
workplace.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

21  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), the measures necessary to
ensure the safety and health of persons at work include —

    (a) providing and maintaining for those persons a work
         environment which is safe, without risk to health, and
         adequate as regards facilities and arrangements for their
         welfare at work;

    (b) ensuring that adequate safety measures are taken in respect
         of any machinery, equipment, plant, article or process used
         by those persons;

    (c) ensuring that those persons are not exposed to hazards
        arising out of the arrangement, disposal, manipulation,
        organisation, processing, storage, transport, working or use
        of things —

    (i) in their workplace; or

    (ii) near their workplace and under the control of the
         employer;

    (d) developing and implementing procedures for dealing with
         emergencies that may arise while those persons are at
         work; and

    (e) ensuring that those persons at work have adequate
        instruction, information, training and supervision as is
        necessary for them to perform their work.

 (4) Every employer must, where required by the regulations, give to
persons (not being the employer’s employees) the prescribed
information about such aspects of the way in which the employer
conducts the employer’s undertaking as might affect their safety or
health while those persons are at the employer’s workplace.

Duties of platform operators

 12A.—(1) It is the duty of every platform operator to take, so far as
is reasonably practicable, such measures as are necessary to ensure
the safety and health of the platform operator’s platform workers at
work.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           22

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the measures necessary to
ensure the safety and health of platform workers at work include —

(a) providing and maintaining for those platform workers a
     work environment which is safe, without risk to health, and
     adequate as regards facilities and arrangements for their
     welfare at work;

(b) ensuring that those platform workers take adequate safety
     measures in respect of any machinery, equipment, plant,
     article or process used by those platform workers;

          (c) ensuring that those platform workers are not exposed to
              hazards arising out of the platform operator’s arrangements
              and processes for, and organisation of, the provision of the
              platform service;

(d) developing and implementing procedures for dealing with
     emergencies that may arise while those platform workers
     are at work; and

          (e) ensuring that those platform workers at work have
              adequate instruction, information, training and
              supervision as is necessary for them to perform their work.

                                                                              [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

Duties of self-employed persons

 13.—(1) It is the duty of every self-employed person (whether or
not he or she is also a contractor or subcontractor) to take, so far as is
reasonably practicable, such measures as are necessary to ensure the
safety and health of persons (not being the self‑employed person’s
employees) who may be affected by any undertaking carried on by
the self‑employed person in the workplace.

 (2) Every self-employed person must, where required by the
regulations, give to persons (not being the self‑employed person’s
employees) the prescribed information about such aspects of the way
in which the self‑employed person conducts his or her undertaking as
might affect their safety or health while those persons are at the
self‑employed person’s workplace.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                      Workplace Safety and

23                    Health Act 2006                         2020 Ed.

Duties of principals

 14.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), it is the duty of every principal
to take, so far as is reasonably practicable, such measures as are
necessary to ensure the safety and health of —

    (a) any contractor engaged by the principal when at work;

    (b) any direct or indirect subcontractor engaged by such
         contractor when at work; and

    (c) any employee employed by such contractor or
        subcontractor when at work.

 (2) The duty imposed on the principal in subsection (1) only applies
where the contractor, subcontractor or employee mentioned in that
subsection is working under the direction of the principal as to the
manner in which the work is carried out.

 (3) It is the duty of every principal to take, so far as is reasonably
practicable, such measures as are necessary to ensure the safety and
health of persons (other than a person referred to in subsection (1)(a),
(b) or (c) working under the principal’s direction) who may be
affected by any undertaking carried on by the principal in the
workplace.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (1), the measures necessary to
ensure the safety and health of persons at work include —

    (a) providing and maintaining for those persons a work
         environment which is safe, without risk to health, and
         adequate as regards facilities and arrangements for their
         welfare at work;

    (b) ensuring that adequate safety measures are taken in respect
         of any machinery, equipment, plant, article or process used
         by those persons;

    (c) ensuring that those persons are not exposed to hazards
        arising out of the arrangement, disposal, manipulation,
        organisation, processing, storage, transport, working or use
        of things —

    (i) in their workplace; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           24

          (ii) near their workplace and under the control of the
               principal;

(d) developing and implementing procedures for dealing with
     emergencies that may arise while those persons are at
     work; and

          (e) ensuring that those persons at work have adequate
              instruction, information, training and supervision as is
              necessary for them to perform their work.

 (5) Every principal must, where required by the regulations, give to
persons (other than a person referred to in subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c)
working under the principal’s direction) the prescribed information
about such aspects of the way in which the principal conducts the
principal’s undertaking as might affect their safety or health while
those persons are at the principal’s workplace.

Additional duties of principals in relation to contractors

 14A.—(1) It is the duty of every principal to take, so far as is
reasonably practicable, such measures as are necessary to ensure that
any contractor engaged by the principal on or after 1 September
2011 —

       (a) has the necessary expertise to carry out the work for which
            the contractor is engaged by the principal to do; and

       (b) has taken adequate safety and health measures in respect of
            any machinery, equipment, plant, article or process used,
            or to be used, by the contractor or any employee employed
            by the contractor.

                                                                                                            [18/2011]

 (2) The duty imposed on every principal under subsection (1)(a)
includes ascertaining that the contractor engaged by the principal and
any employee of the contractor —

       (a) have sufficient experience and training to carry out the
            work for which the contractor is engaged by the principal
            to do; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

25  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

       (b) have obtained any necessary licence, permit, certificate or
            any other document in order to carry out the work for
            which the contractor is engaged by the principal to do.

                                                                                                            [18/2011]

 (3) The duty imposed on every principal under subsection (1)(b)
includes ascertaining that the contractor engaged by the principal —

    (a) has conducted a risk assessment in relation to the safety
         and health risks posed to any person who may be affected
         by the work for which the contractor is engaged by the
         principal to do; and

       (b) has informed any person who may be affected by the work
            for which the contractor is engaged by the principal to do
            of the nature of the risk involved in the work and any
            measure or safe work procedure which is implemented at
            the workplace.

                                                                                                            [18/2011]

 (4) In any proceedings for an offence under this section, it is not a
defence for the principal to prove that the principal has taken, so far as
is reasonably practicable, such measures as are necessary to ensure
compliance with this section solely by providing directly or
indirectly, by a term in a contract with the principal’s contractor,
that the contractor has complied with or will comply with the
requirements mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) of subsection (1).

                                                                                                            [18/2011]

 (5) In this section, “risk assessment” means the process of
evaluating the probability and consequences of injury or illness
arising from exposure to an identified hazard, and determining the
appropriate measure for risk control.

                                                                                                            [18/2011]

 (6) Section 14 does not limit the duty of a principal under this
section.

                                                                                                            [18/2011]

Duties of persons at work

 15.—(1) It is the duty of every person at work —

       (a) to use in such manner so as to provide the protection
            intended, any suitable appliance, protective clothing,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           26

          convenience, equipment or other means or thing provided
          (whether for his or her use alone or for use by him or her in
          common with others) for securing his or her safety, health
          and welfare while at work; and

       (b) to cooperate with his or her employer, principal or platform
            operator and any other person to such extent as will enable
            his or her employer, principal, platform operator or the
            other person (as the case may be) to comply with the
            provisions of this Act.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

 (2) A person at work must not wilfully or recklessly interfere with
or misuse any appliance, protective clothing, convenience, equipment
or other means or thing provided (whether for his or her use alone or
for use by him or her in common with others) pursuant to any
requirement under this Act for securing the safety, health or welfare
of persons (including himself or herself) at work.

 (3) Any person at work who, without reasonable cause, wilfully or
recklessly does any act which endangers the safety or health of
himself or herself or others shall be guilty of an offence.

 (4) Any person at work who, without reasonable cause, does any
negligent act which endangers the safety or health of himself or
herself or others shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable upon
conviction to a fine not exceeding $30,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                                                            [18/2011]

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1,000 and, in the case of a second or subsequent
conviction, to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

Duties of manufacturers and suppliers of machinery,
equipment or hazardous substances used at work

 16.—(1) Subject to this section, it is the duty of any person who
manufactures or supplies any machinery, equipment or hazardous
substance for use at work to ensure, so far as is reasonably
practicable —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

27  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

    (a) that the following information about the safe use of the
         machinery, equipment or hazardous substance is available
         to any person to whom the machinery, equipment or
         hazardous substance is supplied for use at work:

    (i) the precautions (if any) to be taken for the proper use
        and maintenance of the machinery, equipment or
        hazardous substance;

    (ii) the health hazards (if any) associated with the
         machinery, equipment or hazardous substance; and

    (iii) the information relating to and the results of any
          examinations or tests of the machinery, equipment or
          hazardous substance under paragraph (c) that are
          relevant to its safe use;

    (b) that the machinery, equipment or hazardous substance is
         safe, and without risk to health, when properly used;

    (c) that the machinery, equipment or hazardous substance is
        examined and tested so as to comply with the obligation
        imposed by paragraph (b).

(2) The duties imposed on any person specified in subsection (1) —

    (a) apply only if the machinery, equipment or hazardous
         substance is manufactured or supplied in the course of
         trade, business, profession or undertaking carried on by the
         person, whether for profit or not;

    (b) apply whether or not the machinery, equipment or
         hazardous substance is exclusively manufactured or
         supplied for use by persons at work; and

    (c) extend to the supply of the machinery, equipment or
        hazardous substance by way of sale, transfer, lease or hire
        and whether as principal or agent, and to the supply of the
        machinery, equipment or hazardous substance to a person
        for the purpose of supply to others.

 (3) The duties imposed on any person specified in subsection (1) do
not apply to a person by reason only that the person supplies the
machinery or equipment under a hire-purchase agreement,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           28

conditional sale agreement or credit-sale agreement to another (called
in this section the customer) in the course of a business of financing
the acquisition of the machinery or equipment by the customer from
others.

 (4) Where a person (called in this subsection the ostensible
supplier) supplies any machinery or equipment for use at work to a
customer under a hire-purchase agreement, conditional sale
agreement or credit-sale agreement, and the ostensible supplier —

(a) carries on the business of financing the acquisition of
     goods by others by means of such agreements; and

(b) in the course of that business acquired an interest in the
     machinery or equipment supplied to the customer as a
     means of financing its acquisition by the customer from a
     third person (called in this subsection the effective
     supplier),

the effective supplier is treated for the purposes of this section as
supplying the machinery or equipment to the customer instead of the
ostensible supplier, and any duty imposed by subsection (1) on a
supplier accordingly applies to the effective supplier, and not to the
ostensible supplier.

 (5) Where a person designs, manufactures or supplies any
machinery, equipment or hazardous substance for use at work and
does so for or to another on the basis of a written undertaking by that
other to take specified steps sufficient to ensure, so far as is
reasonably practicable, that the machinery, equipment or hazardous
substance will be safe and without risk to health when properly used,
the undertaking has the effect of relieving the firstmentioned person
from the duty imposed by subsection (1)(b) to such extent as is
reasonable having regard to the terms of the undertaking.

 (6) Any person required under subsection (1)(c) to ensure that any
machinery, equipment or hazardous substance is examined and tested
so as to comply with the obligation imposed by subsection (1)(b) is
regarded as having complied with subsection (1)(c) to the extent
that —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

29  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

    (a) the examination or test has already been carried out
         otherwise than by, or on behalf of, the person; and

    (b) it is reasonable for the person to rely on that examination or
         test.

 (7) For the purposes of this section, an absence of safety, or a risk to
health, is to be disregarded insofar as the case in or in relation to
which it would arise is shown to be one the occurrence of which could
not reasonably be foreseen.

 (8) In this section, “supplier”, in relation to any machinery,
equipment or hazardous substance, does not include a manufacturer
of those items when supplying, but includes an importer when
supplying those items.

 (9) This section applies only to machinery, equipment or hazardous
substances specified in the Fifth Schedule.

Duties of persons who erect, install or modify machinery or
equipment and persons in control of machinery for use at work

 17.—(1) It is the duty of any person who erects, installs or modifies
any machinery or equipment for use at work to ensure, so far as is
reasonably practicable, that the machinery or equipment is erected,
installed or modified in such a manner that it is safe, and without risk
to health, when properly used.

 (2) The duty imposed on a person erecting, installing or modifying
any machinery or equipment under subsection (1) applies only if the
machinery or equipment is erected, installed or modified in the course
of the person’s trade, business, profession or undertaking.

 (3) Any person required under subsection (1) to ensure that any
machinery or equipment is erected, installed or modified in such a
manner that it is safe, and without risk to health, when properly used
is regarded as having complied with that subsection to the extent
that —

       (a) the person ensured, so far as is reasonably practicable, that
            the erection, installation or modification was in accordance
            with the information supplied by the designer,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           30

          manufacturer or supplier of the machinery or equipment
          regarding its erection, installation or modification; and

(b) it is reasonable for the person to rely on that information.

 (4) Where any machinery moved by mechanical power is used in
any workplace, then despite anything in this Act, it is the duty of the
owner of the machinery to ensure —

(a) so far as is reasonably practicable, that the machinery is
     maintained in a safe condition; and

(b) that the precautions (if any) to be taken for the safe use of
     the machinery and the health hazards (if any) associated
     with the machinery are available to any person using the
     machinery.

 (5) Where the owner of any machinery moved by mechanical
power has entered into a contract of hire or lease with a hirer or lessee,
the duty imposed under subsection (4) applies to the hirer or lessee of
the machinery instead of the owner.

 (6) Where the owner, hirer or lessee of any machinery moved by
mechanical power has entered into a contract with another person to
maintain the machinery, the duty under subsection (4)(a) applies to
that other person instead of the owner, hirer or lessee of the
machinery.

 (7) Subsections (1), (2) and (3) apply only to machinery or
equipment specified in Part 1 of the Fifth Schedule.

Other related duties of occupiers, employers and platform
operators

 18.—(1) An employer must not —

       (a) deduct, or allow to be deducted, from the sum contracted to
            be paid by the employer to any of the employer’s
            employees; or

       (b) receive, or allow any agent of the employer to receive, any
            payment from any employee of the employer,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

31  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

in respect of anything to be done or provided by the employer in
accordance with this Act in order to ensure the safety, health or
welfare of any of the employer’s employees at work.

 (2) An employer must not dismiss or threaten to dismiss an
employee because the employee —

    (a) has assisted (whether by the giving of information or
         otherwise) an inspector, authorised person or any other
         public authority in the conduct of any inspection or
         investigation under this Act for a breach or an alleged
         breach of this Act, or proposes to do so;

    (b) has in good faith sought the assistance of, or made a report
         to an inspector or authorised person in relation to a safety
         and health matter, or proposes to do so;

    (c) is performing the employee’s duties in good faith as a
        member of a workplace safety and health committee; or

    (d) has complied with an order made under section 21 or
         otherwise complied with this Act, or proposes to do so.

(2A) A platform operator must not —

    (a) deduct, or allow to be deducted, from the earnings of any
         platform worker relating to the platform worker’s
         provision of a platform service for the platform operator; or

    (b) receive, or allow any agent of the platform operator to
         receive, any payment from any platform worker who is
         providing or has provided a platform service for the
         platform operator,

in respect of anything to be done or provided by the platform operator
in accordance with this Act in order to ensure the safety, health or
welfare of any of the platform operator’s platform workers at work.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

 (2B) A platform operator must not —

    (a) terminate or threaten to terminate a platform work
         agreement with any platform worker; or

    (b) refuse or threaten to refuse to assign to or facilitate for any
         platform worker, or prevent or threaten to prevent any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           32

          platform worker from receiving or obtaining, any tasks to
          be performed in relation to the provision of any platform
          service for the platform operator,

because the platform worker —

          (c) has assisted (whether by the giving of information or
              otherwise) an inspector or authorised person or any other
              public authority in the conduct of any inspection or
              investigation under this Act for a breach or an alleged
              breach of this Act, or proposes to do so;

(d) has in good faith sought the assistance of, or made a report
     to, an inspector or authorised person in relation to a safety
     and health matter, or proposes to do so; or

       (e) has complied with an order made under section 21 or
            otherwise complied with this Act, or proposes to do so.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

 (3) The occupier of a workplace must cause to be kept in the
workplace the following records:

(a) every document issued in respect of the workplace by the
     Commissioner under the provisions of this Act;

(b) a copy of every notice furnished to the Commissioner as
     required under this Act; and

          (c) all reports and particulars prepared in respect of the
              workplace under this Act.

(4) Any occupier of a workplace must —

(a) ensure that the records mentioned in subsection (3) are kept
     for at least 5 years from the date the records were made or
     such other period as may be prescribed; and

(b) whenever required to do so within that period, produce and
     make available to an inspector for inspection a copy of the
     records.

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (2), (2A) or (2B)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

33  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (3) or (4) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $2,000.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

Duties of occupiers of common areas

 19.—(1) For the purposes of subsection (2), where a building
comprises one or more workplaces, any common property or limited
common property of the building (called in this section the common
area) which is used by persons at work in any such workplace or is
used by such persons to move through is treated as part of their
workplace.

 (2) It is the duty of the occupier of the common area to comply with
any provision of this Act with respect to —

       (a) electric generators and motors located in the common area;

       (b) hoists and lifts, lifting gear, lifting appliances and lifting
            machines located in the common area;

       (c) means of access into or egress from the common area; and

       (d) any machinery or plant located in the common area which
            belongs to or is supplied by the owner or occupier of the
            common area.

 (3) In this section —

      “common property” and “limited common property” have the
         meanings given by the Building (Strata Management)
         Act 2004;

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2020 wef 01/10/2025]

      “occupier”, in relation to a common area, includes the
         management corporation or subsidiary management
         corporation (as the case may be) having control of that
         common area.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           34

Offence of breaching duty under this Part

 20. In the event of any contravention of any provision in this Part
which imposes a duty on a person, that person shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                    PART 5

                     POWERS OF COMMISSIONER

Power to issue remedial order or stop-work order

 21.—(1) This section applies if the Commissioner is satisfied
that —

       (a) any workplace is in such condition, or is so located, or any
            part of the machinery, equipment, plant or article in the
            workplace is so used, that any work or process carried on in
            the workplace cannot be carried on with due regard to the
            safety, health and welfare of persons at work;

       (b) any person has contravened any duty imposed by this Act;
            or

       (c) any person has done any act, or has refrained from doing
            any act which, in the opinion of the Commissioner, poses
            or is likely to pose a risk to the safety, health and welfare of
            persons at work.

 (2) Where this section applies, the Commissioner may serve a
remedial order or a stop-work order in respect of a workplace on —

       (a) any person who is in control of the workplace, or the work
            or process carried out in the workplace;

       (b) any person whose duty under this Act is to ensure the
            safety, health and welfare of any person at work in the
            workplace; or

       (c) any person who poses or is likely to pose a risk to the
            safety, health and welfare of any person at work in the
            workplace.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

35  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

(3) A remedial order under this section must —

    (a) direct the person served with the order to take such
         measures, to the satisfaction of the Commissioner —

    (i) to remedy any danger so as to enable the work or
        process in the workplace to be carried on with due
        regard to the safety, health and welfare of the persons
        at work;

    (ii) to comply with any duty imposed under this Act; or

    (iii) to do or refrain from doing any act mentioned in
          subsection (1)(c); and

    (b) specify the date on which it is to take effect and the period
         (which runs from the date the remedial order takes effect)
         within which any step required by the order must be taken.

(4) A stop-work order must —

    (a) direct the person served with the order to immediately
         cease to carry on any work or process —

    (i) indefinitely; or

    (ii) until such measures as are required by the
         Commissioner have been taken, to the satisfaction
         of the Commissioner, to remedy any danger so as to
         enable the work or process in the workplace to be
         carried on with due regard to the safety, health and
         welfare of the persons at work; and

    (b) specify the date on which it is to take effect.

 (5) The Commissioner may delegate the power to issue a remedial
order or stop-work order to any Deputy Commissioner.

 (6) Any person who fails to comply with a remedial order shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           36

 (7) Any person who fails to comply with a stop-work order shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $500,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $20,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (8) Where any person fails to comply with a remedial order or
stop‑work order, the Commissioner may —

(a) at all reasonable times enter upon the workplace and take
     such measures and do such work as may be necessary to
     give effect to the order; and

(b) take appropriate measures to prevent —

          (i) unauthorised entry to any area; or

          (ii) unauthorised access to any machinery, equipment,
               plant or article affected by the order.

 (9) Any costs and expenses incurred by the Commissioner under
subsection (8) may be recovered as a debt due to the Government
from the person served with the remedial order or stop‑work order.

 (10) Where the Commissioner has taken measures under
subsection (8)(b) in respect of any area or machinery, equipment,
plant or article, any person who, knowing that such measures have
been taken, enters that area or gains access to that machinery,
equipment, plant or article without the authorisation of the
Commissioner shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Appeal from order made by Commissioner

 22.—(1) Any person who is affected by any order made by the
Commissioner under section 21 may, within 14 days of the date of
service of the order, appeal to the Minister who may rescind or vary
the order.

 (2) Where an appeal is made to the Minister against any remedial
order, that order does not have effect pending the outcome of the
appeal.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

37  Health Act 2006       2020 Ed.

 (3) Where an appeal is made to the Minister against any stop-work
order, the affected person must comply with the order pending the
outcome of the appeal, and the stop-work order has effect until it is
otherwise rescinded or varied.

Power to suspend certificate

 23.—(1) The Commissioner may suspend any certificate issued by
him or her under this Act in respect of any work or workplace, and
must inform the person named in the certificate in writing of the
suspension and also the reason for the suspension.

 (2) Where any certificate is suspended under subsection (1), the
person affected must immediately cease to do any work at any
workplace for which the certificate was required.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

                                    PART 6

                 INVESTIGATIONS, INQUIRIES AND
                     REPORTING OF ACCIDENTS,

                 DANGEROUS OCCURRENCES AND
                      OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES

Investigation into accidents, dangerous occurrences, etc.

 24. Where the Commissioner becomes aware of any accident,
dangerous occurrence or occupational disease in a workplace, the
Commissioner may direct an inspector to investigate the
circumstances of the accident, dangerous occurrence or
occupational disease.

Alteration or addition to machinery, equipment, etc.

 25.—(1) A person must not, without the consent of the
Commissioner —

       (a) alter, replace, remove or add to any machinery, equipment,
            plant or article which may have contributed to the cause of

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           38

          any accident resulting in the death of any person or any
          dangerous occurrence or occupational disease; or

(b) modify the scene of the fatal accident or dangerous
     occurrence or the scene where the occupational disease
     occurred.

 (2) The occupier of a workplace in which an accident, a dangerous
occurrence or an occupational disease occurs must take all reasonable
measures to prevent any person from —

(a) altering, replacing, removing or adding to any machinery,
     equipment, plant or article which may have contributed to
     the cause of the accident resulting in the death of any
     person or the dangerous occurrence or occupational
     disease; or

(b) modifying the scene of the fatal accident or dangerous
     occurrence or the scene where the occupational disease
     occurred.

 (3) It is presumed, unless it is proved to the contrary, that any
alteration, replacement, removal or addition as is mentioned in
subsection (1) has been made by the occupier of a workplace.

 (4) Nothing in subsection (1) or (2) operates to interfere with rescue
work or work necessary for the general safety of life and property.

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) and any occupier of
a workplace who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Minister may direct inquiry to be held

 26.—(1) The Minister may appoint an Inquiry Committee to hold
an inquiry into any accident, dangerous occurrence or occupational
disease that has occurred in a workplace and into its causes and
circumstances, and direct that the Committee reports its findings to
the Minister.

 (2) The Inquiry Committee mentioned in subsection (1) must
comprise —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

39  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

    (a) a District Judge appointed by the Minister after consulting
         the Presiding Judge of the State Courts; and

       (b) one or more assessors appointed by the Minister.

                                                                                                             [5/2014]

 (3) The Inquiry Committee must hold the inquiry in open court in
such manner and under such conditions as it thinks most effectual
for —

    (a) ascertaining the causes and circumstances of the accident,
         dangerous occurrence or occupational disease; and

    (b) enabling it to make the report to the Minister.

(4) The Inquiry Committee has, for the purposes of the inquiry —

    (a) all the powers of a District Court when trying offences
         under this Act;

    (b) all the powers of an inspector under this Act; and

    (c) all of the following powers:

    (i) to enter and inspect any premises, the entry or
        inspection of which appears to the Inquiry
        Committee requisite for the purposes of the inquiry;

    (ii) by summons signed by the District Judge, to require
         attendance of all such persons as the Inquiry
         Committee thinks fit to call before it and examine
         and to require answers or returns to such inquiries as
         it thinks fit;

    (iii) to require the production of all books, papers and
          documents which the Inquiry Committee considers
          important for the purposes of the inquiry; and

    (iv) to administer oaths and to require any person
         examined to make and sign a declaration of the
         truth of the statements made by the person in the
         person’s examination.

 (5) Upon conclusion of its inquiry, the Inquiry Committee must
make a report to the Minister —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.              Health Act 2006                               40

(a) stating the causes and circumstances of the accident,
     dangerous occurrence or occupational disease; and

(b) adding any observations or recommendations which the
     Inquiry Committee thinks appropriate to make.

 (6) If the District Judge is of the opinion that criminal proceedings
ought to be instituted against any person in connection with the
accident, dangerous occurrence or occupational disease, the District
Judge is to also forward a copy of the report to the Public Prosecutor.

(7) Any person who —

(a) fails to comply with any summons, order or requisition of
     the District Judge; or

(b) prevents or impedes the Inquiry Committee in the
     execution of its duties,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000.

 (8) It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under
subsection (7)(a) to prove that the person had a reasonable excuse for
failing to comply with the summons, order or requisition of the
District Judge.

 (9) The Minister may cause the report of the Inquiry Committee to
be made public at such time and in such manner as the Minister thinks
fit.

Notification and reporting of accidents, dangerous
occurrences, etc.

 27.—(1) The Minister may by regulations require an employer, a
platform operator, an occupier, a registered medical practitioner or
any other person to notify or to submit a report to the Commissioner
in the event of an accident, a dangerous occurrence or an occupational
disease in a prescribed workplace.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

 (2) Regulations made under subsection (1) may apply to a person
who is an exempt person at work specified in the Sixth Schedule.

                                                                                                            [18/2011]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

41  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

Learning report of accident, etc.

 27A.—(1) Where the Commissioner considers it necessary in the
interest of the public, or a section of the public, the Commissioner
may prepare and publish a learning report on any accident, dangerous
occurrence or occupational disease in a workplace that is the subject
of an investigation under section 24.

                                                                                                           [44/2017]

 (2) The sole objective of publishing a learning report is to prevent
or minimise the recurrence of any accident, dangerous occurrence or
occupational disease in a workplace, and not to apportion blame or
liability.

                                                                                                           [44/2017]

 (3) A learning report may be published before or after the
conclusion of the investigation under section 24.

                                                                                                           [44/2017]

 (4) To avoid doubt, every learning report is, for the purpose of any
law, to be treated as prepared and published by and on behalf of the
Government and in the service of the Government.

                                                                                                           [44/2017]

 (5) A learning report on an accident, a dangerous occurrence or an
occupational disease in a workplace may —

    (a) contain an account of the accident, dangerous occurrence
         or occupational disease;

    (b) specify the cause or causes of, and circumstances or factors
         leading to, the accident, dangerous occurrence or
         occupational disease insofar as they may be ascertained;

    (c) contain an opinion by a person with technical or
        specialised knowledge of the machinery, equipment,
        plant, article, process, substance, work or workplace
        involved in the accident, dangerous occurrence or
        occupational disease;

    (d) contain a warning of any danger or risk to the safety and
         health of persons at work or persons who may be affected
         by any undertaking carried on in the workplace;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           42

          (e) contain any recommendation to prevent or minimise the
              recurrence of any similar accident, dangerous occurrence
              or occupational disease in a workplace; and

          (f) contain any other matter that the Commissioner considers
              relevant, taking into account the sole objective mentioned
              in subsection (2).

                                                                                                          [44/2017]

Learning report, etc., not admissible in evidence

 27B.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), a learning report, or any draft
of the learning report, is not admissible in evidence in any civil,
criminal, arbitral or disciplinary proceedings before any court,
tribunal or body, or any proceedings under the Work Injury
Compensation Act 2019 or the Work Injury Compensation Act
(Cap. 354, 2009 Revised Edition) repealed by that Act.

                                                                                                [44/2017; 27/2019]

 (2) An inspector is, in any proceedings mentioned in subsection (1),
not compellable —

       (a) to produce or answer questions about any document or part
            of a document made by the inspector and contained in a
            learning report, or in any draft of the learning report; or

       (b) to give evidence on the preparation of a learning report, or
            any draft of the learning report.

                                                                                                           [44/2017]

 (3) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to the following:

       (a) an inquiry under section 26;

       (b) an inquiry under the Coroners Act 2010;

       (c) an inquiry by a commission of inquiry or a committee of
            inquiry under the Inquiries Act 2007.

                                                                                                           [44/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

43  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

    PART 7

            SAFETY AND HEALTH
    MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS

Workplace safety and health officers and coordinators

 28.—(1) Every workplace within the prescribed class or description
of workplaces must have appointed in respect thereof a workplace
safety and health officer or a workplace safety and health coordinator.

(2) For the purposes of this section, the Minister may prescribe —

    (a) the manner of appointment of a workplace safety and
         health officer and a workplace safety and health
         coordinator;

    (b) the functions and duties of a workplace safety and health
         officer and a workplace safety and health coordinator; and

    (c) the powers of a workplace safety and health officer and a
        workplace safety and health coordinator, being necessary
        powers for the officer or coordinator (as the case may be)
        to discharge his or her functions and duties under this Act.

Workplace safety and health committees

 29.—(1) Every workplace within the prescribed class or description
of workplaces must have appointed in respect thereof a workplace
safety and health committee.

 (2) Every workplace safety and health committee of a workplace
must comprise representatives of employees of the workplace as well
as employers.

 (3) The functions of a workplace safety and health committee
appointed in respect of a workplace are —

       (a) to keep under review circumstances in the workplace
            which affect or may affect the safety or health of persons in
            the workplace;

       (b) to promote cooperation between management and
            employees in achieving and maintaining safe and healthy
            working conditions;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           44

          (c) to carry out from time to time inspections of the scene of
              any accident or dangerous occurrence in the interests of the
              safety and health of the employees;

(d) to exercise any other functions and duties as may be
     prescribed or conferred on the committee under this Act;
     and

          (e) any other functions as may be prescribed.

 (4) The management must provide such facilities and assistance to
the workplace safety and health committee of a workplace as the
committee may reasonably require for the purpose of carrying out the
committee’s functions and duties under this section.

 (5) A workplace safety and health committee has such powers as
may be prescribed, being necessary powers for the committee to
discharge its functions and duties under this Act.

Workplace safety and health auditors

 30.—(1) Every workplace within the prescribed class or description
of workplaces must have appointed in respect thereof a workplace
safety and health auditor.

 (2) The functions of a workplace safety and health auditor
appointed in respect of a workplace are to audit, in such manner as
the Commissioner may determine, all or any of the following with a
view to ensuring the safety, health and welfare of persons at work in
the workplace:

       (a) the safety and health management system of the
            workplace;

       (b) any risk assessment relating to the workplace or the work
            carried out in that workplace;

       (c) any work process at the workplace; or

       (d) the workplace.

 (3) A workplace safety and health auditor has such powers as may
be prescribed, being necessary powers for the auditor to discharge his
or her functions and duties under this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

45  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

 (4) In this section, “risk assessment” means the process of
evaluating the probability and consequences of injury or illness
arising from exposure to an identified hazard, and determining the
appropriate measures for risk control.

Safety and health training courses

 31.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, require such
prescribed class or description of persons to attend such training
courses as are specified in the order.

 (2) The employer of any person required to attend any training
course under subsection (1) must ensure that the person completes or
has completed such safety and health training course before allowing
that person to perform any work for which the training is required.

 (3) Any safety and health training course mentioned in
subsection (1) must be conducted by an accredited training provider.

 (4) Even though a person has completed such safety and health
training course as is required under this section, the Commissioner
may, if the Commissioner thinks that a refresher course is necessary,
issue a written direction requiring that person to attend another such
training course.

 (5) An employer who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

Requirement for approval of Commissioner to act
 32. A person must not act as —
       (a) an authorised examiner for the purpose of carrying out any
            prescribed examination or test of any —
               (i) hoist or lift;
              (ii) lifting gear;
             (iii) lifting appliance or lifting machine;
             (iv) steam boiler;
              (v) steam receiver;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           46

          (vi) air receiver;

          (vii) refrigerating plant pressure receiver;

          (viii) pressure vessel; or

          (ix) any other machinery required by this Act to be
               examined or tested by an authorised examiner;

(b) a workplace safety and health officer;

          (c) a workplace safety and health coordinator;

(d) a workplace safety and health auditor; or

          (e) an accredited training provider,

(called in this Part an authorised person) except with the approval of
the Commissioner.

Application for and grant of approval

 33.—(1) An application for approval to act as an authorised person
must be —

       (a) in such form as the Commissioner may determine;

       (b) accompanied by such information, statements and
            documents as the Commissioner may require; and

       (c) accompanied by the prescribed fee.

 (2) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1), the
Commissioner may —

       (a) grant the approval applied for either unconditionally or
            subject to such conditions as the Commissioner thinks fit;
            or

       (b) refuse the application.

 (3) The Commissioner must not approve any person as an
authorised person unless the Commissioner is satisfied that the
applicant —

       (a) possesses the prescribed qualifications and prescribed
            practical experience; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

47  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

    (b) is sufficiently competent and is, in all other respects, a fit
         and proper person, to be entrusted to carry out the work of
         the relevant authorised person.

 (4) The Commissioner may at any time vary or revoke any of the
existing conditions imposed under subsection (2) or impose new
conditions.

 (5) Upon the approval of a person as an authorised person, the
Commissioner must issue the applicant with a certificate of approval
to act as a relevant authorised person for such period and subject to
such terms and conditions as the Commissioner may specify therein.

Duration of approval

 34.—(1) Subject to section 35, any approval of a person as an
authorised person is valid for such period as the Commissioner may
determine.

 (2) The Commissioner may, on application in writing and on
payment of the prescribed fee, renew the approval of any authorised
person.

Cancellation of approval

 35.—(1) The Commissioner may suspend or cancel the approval of
a person as an authorised person if —

       (a) the Commissioner is satisfied that the person —

               (i) had obtained or procured the person’s approval by
                   fraud or misrepresentation;

              (ii) has breached any term or condition subject to which
                   the approval was granted; or

             (iii) is no longer a fit and proper person to act as a
                   relevant authorised person; or

       (b) the Commissioner considers that it is in the public interest
            to do so.

 (2) The Commissioner must, before cancelling the approval of a
person as an authorised person under subsection (1) —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           48

(a) give the affected person written notice of the
     Commissioner’s intention to do so;

(b) specify a date, at least 21 days after the date of the notice,
     upon which the cancellation takes effect; and

          (c) call upon the affected person to show cause to the
              Commissioner why the Commissioner’s approval as an
              authorised person should not be cancelled.

 (3) If the person to whom a notice has been given under
subsection (2) —

(a) fails to show cause within the period of time given to the
     person to do so or such extended period of time as the
     Commissioner may allow; or

(b) fails to show sufficient cause,

the Commissioner must give written notice to that person of the date
from which the cancellation of the approval takes effect.

 (4) A person whose approval as an authorised person has been
cancelled may, within 14 days after the receipt of the notice
mentioned in subsection (3), appeal in writing against the
cancellation to the Minister whose decision is final.

Surrender of certificate

 36. A person whose approval as an authorised person has been
cancelled by the Commissioner under section 35 must, within 7 days
of the date of the cancellation, surrender the person’s certificate of
approval issued under section 33(5).

False assumption of title

 37. A person must not claim or imply that the person is approved by
the Commissioner as a relevant authorised person unless the person is
approved as such by the Commissioner under section 33.

Offence under this Part

 38. Any person who contravenes section 32, 36 or 37 shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

49  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

                                    PART 8

                      WORKPLACE SAFETY AND
                            HEALTH COUNCIL

Establishment of Workplace Safety and Health Council

 39.—(1) A Workplace Safety and Health Council is established,
consisting of the following members, each of whom must be
appointed by the Minister in accordance with this section:

       (a) a chairperson;

       (b) a deputy chairperson; and

       (c) at least 10 but not more than 18 other members.

 (2) The chairperson, the deputy chairperson and every member of
the Council are to be appointed for a term not exceeding 3 years and
are eligible for re‑appointment.

 (3) The Minister may, at any time, revoke the appointment of the
chairperson, the deputy chairperson or any member of the Council.

 (4) If any member of the Council dies, resigns or is removed from
office, the Minister may appoint any person to fill the vacancy and the
person so appointed holds office for the remainder of the term for
which the vacating member was appointed.

 (5) The powers of the Council are not affected by any vacancy in
the membership thereof.

Powers and proceedings of Council

 40.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Council may
determine its own procedure.

 (2) At any meeting of the Council, 5 members thereof constitutes a
quorum.

 (3) The chairperson of the Council or, in the chairperson’s absence,
the deputy chairperson thereof presides at all meetings of the Council

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           50

and, in their absence, the members present must elect one of their
number to preside.

 (4) The deputy chairperson of the Council may, subject to such
directions as may be given by the chairperson thereof, exercise all or
any of the powers exercisable by the chairperson of the Council under
this Act.

 (5) The Council may appoint, from among its own members or
other persons who are not members of the Council, such number of
committees as it may think fit consisting of its members or other
persons, or both its members and other persons, for purposes which,
in the opinion of the Council, would be better regulated and managed
by means of such committees.

Functions of Council

 40A. The functions of the Council are —

       (a) to develop or facilitate the development of acceptable
            practices relating to safety, health and welfare at work;

       (b) to promote the adoption of acceptable practices relating to
            safety, health and welfare at work;

       (c) to devise, organise and implement programmes and other
            activities for or related to providing support, assistance or
            advice to any person or organisation in preserving,
            improving and promoting safety, health and welfare at
            work;

       (d) to facilitate and promote the development and upgrading of
            competencies, skills and expertise of the workforce
            relating to safety, health and welfare at work;

       (e) to research into any matter relating to safety, health and
            welfare at work;

        (f) to grant prizes and scholarships, and to establish and
            subsidise lectureships in universities and other educational
            institutions in subjects relating to safety, health and welfare
            at work;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

51  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

    (g) to provide practical guidance with respect to the
         requirements of this Act relating to safety, health and
         welfare at work; and

    (h) to do all the things that it is authorised or required to do
         under this Act.

Codes of practice

 40B.—(1) For the purpose of providing practical guidance with
respect to the requirements of this Act relating to safety, health and
welfare at work, the Council may do all or any of the following:

       (a) issue one or more codes of practice, which may include any
            code of practice issued or approved under another written
            law if the Council considers that code of practice suitable
            for this purpose;

       (b) approve as a code of practice any document prepared by
            any person or organisation other than the Council if the
            Council considers the document as a suitable document for
            this purpose;

       (c) amend or revoke any code of practice issued or approved
            under this section.

 (2) The power of the Council under subsection (1)(a) or (b) to issue
or approve a code of practice that is either a code of practice issued or
approved under another written law or a document prepared by any
person or organisation other than the Council includes the power to
issue or approve a part of such a code of practice or document.

 (3) Where a code of practice is issued, approved, amended or
revoked by the Council under subsection (1), the Council must —

       (a) publish a notice of the issue, approval, amendment or
            revocation (as the case may be) of the code of practice in
            such manner as will secure adequate publicity for such
            issue, approval, amendment or revocation;

       (b) specify in the notice mentioned in paragraph (a) —

               (i) the date of issue, approval, amendment or
                   revocation, as the case may be;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           52

          (ii) the class of hazards, activities or articles in respect of
               which the code of practice is issued, approved,
               amended or revoked; and

          (iii) the place at and the time during which, or the Internet
                website where, the code of practice which is the
                subject of the notice may be inspected; and

          (c) ensure that, so long as the code of practice remains in force,
              copies of that code, and of all amendments to that code, are
              available —

          (i) for inspection by members of the public free of
              charge; and

          (ii) for purchase by members of the public at a
               reasonable price.

 (4) Any code of practice, amendment to an approved code of
practice or revocation of any such approved code of practice, does not
have any force or effect until the notice relating thereto is published in
accordance with subsection (3).

 (5) An approved code of practice that is also either a code of
practice issued or approved under another written law or a document
prepared by any person or organisation other than the Council must
consist of the contents of that code or document as that code or
document existed on the date it was issued or approved as an
approved code of practice under this section.

 (6) If any provision of any approved code of practice is inconsistent
with any provision of this Act, such provision, to the extent of the
inconsistency —

(a) has effect subject to the provisions of this Act; or

(b) having regard to the provisions of this Act, does not have
     effect.

 (7) Any approved code of practice is deemed not to be subsidiary
legislation.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

53  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

Use of approved codes of practice in criminal proceedings

 40C.—(1) A person shall not be liable to any criminal proceedings
by reason only that the person has failed to observe any approved
code of practice.

 (2) In any proceedings for an offence under this Act, an approved
code of practice that is relevant to any matter which it is necessary for
the prosecution to prove in order to establish the commission of the
offence is admissible in evidence in the proceedings.

 (3) Without affecting any other method of proof, in any proceedings
for an offence under this Act —

    (a) the production of a document purporting to be a copy of a
         notice published by the Council under section 40B(3)(a) is
         taken to be such a notice until the contrary is proved; and

    (b) the production of a code of practice, or an amendment or a
         revocation of a code of practice, purporting to be the
         subject of a notice under section 40B(3)(a) is taken to be
         the subject of that notice until the contrary is proved.

 (4) In determining for the purpose of any provision of this Act as to
whether any machinery, equipment, plant, installation or article is of
good construction, sound material, adequate strength or in
accordance with the generally accepted principles of safe and
sound practice, regard must be had any relevant Singapore
Standards established and published by the Enterprise Singapore
Board under the Enterprise Singapore Board Act 2018 or such other
standards, codes of practice or guidance acceptable to the Council.

                                                                                                           [10/2018]

                                    PART 9

                INSPECTIONS AND OTHER POWERS
                            OF ENFORCEMENT

Powers of inspectors

 41.—(1) An inspector has, for the purposes of the execution of this
Act, power to do all or any of the following:

       (a) to enter, inspect and examine at any time any workplace;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           54

(b) to enter, inspect and examine at all reasonable times any
     place which the inspector has reasonable cause to believe
     to be —

          (i) a workplace; or

          (ii) a place of which a workplace forms a part;

          (c) to inspect and examine any machinery, equipment, plant,
              installation or article in any place mentioned in
              paragraphs (a) and (b);

(d) to require the production of workplace records, certificates,
     notices and documents kept or required to be kept under
     this Act, and to inspect, examine and make a copy of any of
     them;

          (e) to make such examination and inquiry as may be necessary
              to ascertain whether the provisions of this Act are complied
              with, so far as regards any workplace and any person at
              work;

          (f) to require any person whom the inspector finds in a
              workplace to give such particulars of the employer and the
              occupier of the workplace as are within the person’s
              knowledge;

(g) in the case of an inspector who is a registered medical
     practitioner, to carry out on any person who is or had been
     working in a workplace such medical examinations as may
     be necessary for the purposes of the inspector’s duties
     under this Act;

(h) to take samples of any material or substance found in a
     workplace or being discharged from any workplace for the
     purpose of analysis or test;

          (i) to assess the levels of noise, illumination, heat or harmful
              or hazardous substances in any workplace and the
              exposure levels of persons at work therein;

          (j) to require any hospital, medical clinic or mortuary to
              provide any information (including the medical records) of
              any person who is or had been working in a workplace who

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

55                    Health Act 2006                         2020 Ed.

    is injured in an accident in a workplace or who is suspected
    of suffering from an occupational disease contracted from
    a workplace and is receiving treatment at the hospital or
    medical clinic;

    (k) to take such photographs or video recording as the
        inspector thinks necessary to record the conditions in a
        workplace and the processes carried on therein which may
        be dangerous to the safety or health of the persons at work
        therein;

    (l) to require any person to produce any article which is
        relevant to any investigation or inquiry under this Act and,
        if necessary, to take into custody any such article;

    (m) to require any person whom the inspector finds in the
         workplace to produce evidence of the person’s identity.

 (2) Any person who is found in a workplace must render all
necessary assistance and cooperation to the inspector as are necessary
for an entry, inspection, examination, inquiry, the taking of samples
or otherwise for the exercise of the inspector’s powers under this Act
in relation to that workplace.

(3) If entry to a workplace cannot be obtained, an inspector may —

    (a) break open any outer or inner door or window leading to
         the workplace;

    (b) forcibly enter such workplace and every part thereof; or

    (c) remove by force any obstruction to such entry or search.

(4) Any person who —

    (a) obstructs or delays an inspector in the exercise of the
         inspector’s power under this section;

    (b) fails to comply with any order of an inspector under this
         section, or fails to produce any record, certificate, notice or
         document which the person is required by or under this Act
         to produce;

    (c) withholds any information as to who the employer or
        occupier of the workplace is; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           56

(d) conceals or prevents or attempts to conceal or prevent a
     person from appearing before or being examined by an
     inspector,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Power to take samples

 42.—(1) An inspector may, at any time after informing the occupier
of a workplace or any person apparently in charge of the workplace,
take for analysis sufficient samples of —

       (a) any substance used or intended to be used in the
            workplace;

       (b) any substance found in the workplace that is required for
            the purposes of an investigation or inquiry under this Act;

       (c) any substance the use or presence of which in the
            workplace is suspected to be prohibited under this Act; or

       (d) any substance found in the workplace which, in the
            inspector’s opinion, is likely or may prove on analysis to
            be likely to cause bodily injury to the persons at work in the
            workplace.

 (2) The occupier of a workplace or any person apparently in charge
of the workplace may, at the time when a sample is taken under this
section, and on providing the necessary appliances, require the
inspector to divide the sample into 3 parts, to mark and seal or fasten
up each part in such manner as its nature permits, and —

       (a) to deliver one part to the occupier of the workplace or the
            person apparently in charge of the workplace;

       (b) to retain one part for future comparison; and

       (c) to submit one part to the Health Sciences Authority, or any
            testing laboratory as the Commissioner may appoint, for
            analysis.

 (3) A certificate purporting to be a certificate by an analyst
employed by the Health Sciences Authority or the testing

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

57                    Health Act 2006                         2020 Ed.

laboratory appointed by the Commissioner under subsection (2)(c) as
to the result of an analysis of a sample under this section is admissible
in any proceedings under this Act as evidence of the matters stated
therein, but either party may require the person by whom the analysis
was made to be called as a witness.

 (4) A person must not interfere with any equipment, instrument or
device used for monitoring the workplace or taking samples for
analysis.

(5) Any person who —

    (a) contravenes subsection (4); or

    (b) without the permission of the Commissioner, publishes or
         discloses to any person the results of any analysis made
         under this section,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Power to examine and secure attendance

 43.—(1) An inspector may —

       (a) examine orally any person supposed to be acquainted with
            the facts and circumstances of any accident or dangerous
            occurrence or occupational disease occurring in the
            workplace, or with respect to any matter under this Act,
            and to reduce to writing any statement made by the person
            so examined; and

       (b) require by order in writing the attendance before the
            inspector of any person, being within the limits of
            Singapore, who, from information given or otherwise,
            appears to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances
            of matters under this Act and that person must attend as so
            required.

 (2) The person mentioned in subsection (1)(a) is bound to state
truly the facts and circumstances with which he or she is acquainted
concerning matters under this Act, except only that he or she may
decline to make with regard to any fact or circumstance, a statement

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           58

which would have a tendency to expose him or her to a criminal
charge, penalty or forfeiture.

 (3) A statement made under this section by any person must be read
over to him or her and must, after correction, if necessary, be signed
by him or her.

 (4) If any person fails to attend as required by an order under
subsection (1)(b), the inspector may report such failure to a
Magistrate who may thereupon issue a warrant to secure the
attendance of that person as required by the order.

Competency of inspector as witness

 44. In any case where a prosecution under this Act is brought at the
instance of, or is conducted by, an inspector, there is to be no
objection to the competency of an inspector to give evidence as a
witness in any prosecution for an offence under this Act by reason
that the prosecution is brought at the inspector’s instance, or
conducted by the inspector.

Persons not to reveal protected information

 45.—(1) If a person exercising any function under this Act as an
inspector obtains protected information about the affairs of another
person, the inspector must not disclose that protected information to
any other person unless the disclosure —

       (a) is made with the written consent of the person to whom the
            information relates;

       (b) is for the purpose of the administration or enforcement of
            this Act; or

       (c) is in compliance with the requirement of any court,
            tribunal, authority or person having lawful authority to
            require the production of documents or the answering of
            questions.

 (2) If any person acts in contravention of subsection (1), he or she
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

59  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

 (3) For the purpose of this section, the reference to a person
disclosing any protected information includes his or her permitting
any other person to have any access to any record, document or other
thing containing that information which is in his or her possession or
under his or her control by virtue of the person being or having been
an inspector.

 (4) In this section, “protected information” means information the
disclosure of which would, or could reasonably be expected to
disclose a trade secret or to adversely affect a person in relation to the
lawful business affairs of that person.

                                   PART 10

                         OFFENCES, PENALTIES
                           AND PROCEEDINGS

Unregistered factories

 46.—(1) A person must not occupy or use any premises as a factory
if —

       (a) the regulations require the person to hold a certificate of
            registration of a factory issued under the regulations; and

       (b) the person does not hold such a valid certificate of
            registration of a factory.

                                                                                                            [18/2011]

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 6 months or to both; and

       (b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $500 or to further imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 7 days or to both for every day or part of a day
            during which the offence continues after conviction.

Onus of proving what is reasonably practicable

 47. Where in any proceedings for an offence under any provision in
this Act, it is alleged that any person failed to comply with a duty to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           60

do something so far as is reasonably practicable, it is for the accused
to prove that —

(a) it was not reasonably practicable to do more than what was
     in fact done to satisfy that duty; or

(b) there was no better practicable means than was in fact used
     to satisfy that duty.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 48.—(1) Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a
body corporate, an officer of the body corporate shall be guilty of the
offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly unless the officer proves that —

       (a) the offence was committed without his or her consent or
            connivance; and

       (b) he or she had exercised all such diligence to prevent the
            commission of the offence as he or she ought to have
            exercised having regard to the nature of his or her functions
            in that capacity and to all the circumstances.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act is committed by a partnership
of individuals or bodies corporate, any partner of the partnership or
any officer of the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly
unless he or she proves that —

       (a) the offence was committed without his or her consent or
            connivance; and

       (b) he or she had exercised all such diligence to prevent the
            commission of the offence as he or she ought to have
            exercised having regard to the nature of his or her functions
            in that capacity and to all the circumstances.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                       Workplace Safety and

61                     Health Act 2006                        2020 Ed.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act is committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership), any officer of
the unincorporated association or member of its governing body shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly unless he or she proves that —

    (a) the offence was committed without his or her consent or
         connivance; and

    (b) he or she had exercised all such diligence to prevent the
         commission of the offence as he or she ought to have
         exercised having regard to the nature of his or her functions
         in that capacity and to all the circumstances.

(5) In this section —

    “body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership;

    “officer” —

    (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
         partner, member of the committee of management,
         chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the body corporate and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity; and

    (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
         than a partnership), means the president, the
         secretary, or any member of the committee of the
         unincorporated association, or any person holding a
         position analogous to that of the president, secretary
         or member of the committee and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity;

    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (6) Regulations may provide for the application of any provision of
this section, with such modifications as the Minister considers
appropriate, to any body corporate or unincorporated association
formed or recognised under the law of a territory outside Singapore.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           62

Arrest of person accused of offence under section 15(3) or 21(7)

 49.—(1) Any person reasonably suspected of having committed an
offence under section 15(3) or 21(7) may be arrested without warrant
by any police officer or by any inspector authorised by the
Commissioner in that behalf and produced before a Magistrate’s
Court or a District Court.

 (2) Despite any other written law, any police officer or inspector
who, having effected an arrest in accordance with subsection (1), is
satisfied as to the identity, name and place of residence of the person
arrested may, instead of producing the person before a court or to a
police station, serve upon the person a prescribed notice requiring the
person to attend at such court, at such time and on such date as may be
specified in the notice.

 (3) For the purpose of satisfying himself or herself as to the identity
of the person arrested, the police officer or inspector may require any
evidence of identity that the police officer or inspector considers
necessary to be furnished by the person.

 (4) A duplicate of the notice served under subsection (2) must be
prepared by the police officer or inspector (as the case may be) and
produced by him or her to the court if so required by the court.

 (5) Where an accused person appears before a court in accordance
with a notice served under subsection (2), the court is to take
cognizance of the offence alleged and is to proceed as though the
person were produced before the court pursuant to subsection (1).

 (6) If a person upon whom a notice has been served under
subsection (2) fails to appear before a court in accordance with the
notice, the court may issue a warrant for the arrest of that person.

 (7) Where a person arrested pursuant to a warrant issued under
subsection (6) is produced before a court, the court is to proceed as
though the person were produced before the court under
subsection (1).

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

 (8) [Deleted by Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                   Workplace Safety and

63                 Health Act 2006                            2020 Ed.

General penalties

 50. Any person guilty of an offence under this Act (but not
including the regulations) for which no penalty is expressly provided
by this Act shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) in the case of a natural person, to a fine not exceeding
         $200,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
         2 years or to both; and

    (b) in the case of a body corporate, to a fine not exceeding
         $500,000,

and, if the contravention in respect of which the person was so
convicted continues after the conviction, the person shall (subject to
section 52) be guilty of a further offence and shall be liable to a
fine —

    (c) in the case of a natural person, not exceeding $2,000 for
        every day or part of a day during which the offence
        continues after conviction; or

    (d) in the case of a body corporate, not exceeding $5,000 for
         every day or part of a day during which the offence
         continues after conviction.

Penalty for repeat offenders

 51. Where a person —

       (a) has on at least one previous occasion been convicted of an
            offence under this Act (but not including the regulations)
            that causes the death of any person; and

       (b) is subsequently convicted of the same offence that causes
            the death of another person,

the court may, in addition to any imprisonment if prescribed, punish
the person with —

       (c) in the case of a natural person, a fine not exceeding
            $400,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, with a
            further fine not exceeding $2,000 for every day or part of a
            day during which the offence continues after conviction;
            and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           64

(d) in the case of a body corporate, a fine not exceeding
     $1 million and, in the case of a continuing offence, with a
     further fine not exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of a
     day during which the offence continues after conviction.

Power of court to order cause of contravention to be remedied

 52.—(1) Where any person is convicted of an offence under this
Act, the court may, in addition to or instead of imposing any penalty,
order the person to take, within the time specified in the order (or
within such further time as the court may allow), such steps as may be
so specified for remedying the matters in respect of which the
contravention occurred.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), where an order is made under
subsection (1), the convicted person shall not be liable under this Act
in respect of the continuation of the contravention during the time
specified in the order or allowed by the court to remedy the matters in
respect of which the contravention occurred.

 (3) If, after the expiry of the time specified in the order or allowed
by the court under subsection (1) following a conviction of an
offence, the order is not complied with, the person mentioned in that
subsection shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day during which
the non-compliance continues after the date of conviction for that
firstmentioned offence.

Forgery of certificates, false entries and false declarations

 53. If any person —

       (a) forges or counterfeits any certificate required by, under, or
            for the purposes of, this Act;

       (b) gives or signs any certificate required by, under, or for the
            purposes of, this Act knowing it to be false in any material
            particular;

       (c) knowingly utters or makes use of any certificate required
            by, under, or for the purposes of, this Act that is forged,
            counterfeited or false;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

65  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

    (d) knowingly utters or makes use of, as applying to any
         person, any certificate required by, under, or for the
         purposes of, this Act which does not so apply;

    (e) personates any person named in any certificate required by,
        under, or for the purposes of, this Act;

    (f) falsely pretends to be an inspector;

    (g) wilfully connives at any of the matters referred to in
         paragraphs (a) to (f);

    (h) wilfully makes a false entry in any record, certificate,
         notice or document required by, under, or for the purposes
         of, this Act to be kept, served or sent;

    (i) wilfully makes or signs a declaration required by, under, or
        for the purposes of, this Act which is false; or

    (j) knowingly makes use of any false entry or declaration
        mentioned in paragraph (h) or (i),

that person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Jurisdiction of court

 54. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment in
respect of the offence.

When Magistrate may try offence

 55. For the purpose of section 151 of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, on receiving the complaint in writing and signed by an
inspector, the Magistrate must proceed to issue a summons or warrant
in accordance with section 153 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

Composition of offences

 56.—(1) The Commissioner may compound any offence under this
Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           66

person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
not exceeding one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
prescribed for the offence or a sum of $5,000, whichever is the lower.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

Power to modify agreements

 57.—(1) If, by reason of an agreement between the owner and the
occupier of the workplace, the whole or any part of which has been let
as a workplace, the owner or the occupier of the workplace is
prevented from carrying out any structural or other alterations in the
premises which are necessary to enable the owner or occupier to
comply with the provisions of this Act or in order to conform with any
standard or requirement imposed by or under this Act, the owner or
the occupier of the workplace may apply to the General Division of
the High Court for the terms of the agreement to be set aside or
modified.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) The General Division of the High Court may, after hearing the
parties and any witness whom they may desire to call, make such an
order setting aside or modifying the terms of the agreement as the
General Division of the High Court considers just and equitable in the
circumstances of the case.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Power to apportion expenses

 58.—(1) Where in any premises the whole or any part of which has
been let as a workplace any structural or other alterations are required
in order to comply with the provisions of this Act or to conform with
any standard or requirement imposed by or under this Act, and the
owner or occupier of the workplace (as the case may be) alleges that
the whole or part of the expenses of the alterations ought to be borne
by the owner or occupier of the workplace, the owner or occupier of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

67  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

the workplace may apply to the General Division of the High Court
for the expenses of the alterations to be apportioned between them.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) The General Division of the High Court may, after hearing the
parties and any witness whom they may desire to call, make such an
order concerning the apportionment of their expenses as the General
Division of the High Court considers just and equitable in the
circumstances of the case, regard being had to the terms of any
contract between the parties, or in the alternative, the General
Division of the High Court may, at the request of the owner or
occupier of the workplace, determine the lease.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

                                    PART 11
                                  GENERAL
Relation to other laws
 59. Nothing in this Act or in any approved code of practice
derogates from the effect of any other written law for the time being
in force.

Civil liability
 60.—(1) Nothing in this Act is to be construed —
       (a) as conferring a right of action in any civil proceedings in
            respect of any contravention, whether by act or omission,
            of any provision of this Act; or
       (b) as conferring a defence to an action in any civil
            proceedings or as otherwise affecting a right of action in
            any civil proceedings.
 (2) Subsection (1) does not affect the extent (if any) to which a

breach of duty imposed under any written law is actionable.

Protection from personal liability
 61.—(1) No liability shall lie personally against —
       (a) the Commissioner;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                     Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.                        Health Act 2006                     68

(b) a Deputy Commissioner;

          (c) an inspector; or

(d) an authorised officer appointed by the Commissioner
     under section 7(3),

who, acting in good faith and with reasonable care, does or omits to
do anything in the execution or purported execution of this Act.

                                                                                                           [44/2017]

 (2) No liability shall lie personally against an authorised examiner
who, acting in good faith and with reasonable care in the course of
carrying out any prescribed examination or test, damages any one or
more of the following items:

(a) a hoist or lift;

(b) a lifting gear;

          (c) a lifting appliance or lifting machine;

(d) a steam boiler;

          (e) a steam receiver;

          (f) an air receiver;

(g) a refrigerating plant pressure receiver;

(h) a pressure vessel;

          (i) any other machinery required by this Act to be examined or
              tested by an authorised examiner.

                                                                                                          [44/2017]

Exempt workers, workplaces and equipment, etc.

 62.—(1) The provisions of this Act do not apply to the persons at
work specified in the Sixth Schedule, even though their work is
carried out or performed in a workplace.

                                                                                                            [18/2011]

 (2) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette and with or without
conditions, exempt —

       (a) any class or description of workplaces from all or any of
            the provisions of this Act;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

69  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

    (b) any class or description of persons from compliance with
         all or any of the provisions of this Act; or

    (c) any class or description of machinery, equipment, plant,
        installation or articles from all or any of the provisions of
        this Act.

 (3) The Commissioner may, subject to any general or special
directions of the Minister, by a certificate in writing, with or without
conditions, exempt —

    (a) any machinery, equipment, plant, installation or article that
         is identified specifically in the certificate from all or any of
         the provisions of this Act; or

    (b) any person identified specifically in the certificate from
         compliance with all or any of the provisions of this Act.

 (4) If an exemption is granted under this section with conditions,
the exemption operates only if the conditions are complied with.

Service of documents, etc.

 63.—(1) Any document (including any summons or order) required
or authorised to be served under this Act may be served —

       (a) on any person by delivering it to the person, or by leaving it
            at, or sending it by registered post to, his or her residence;

       (b) on any firm by delivering it to any partner of the firm, or by
            leaving it at, or sending it by registered post to, an office of
            the firm; or

       (c) on the owner of any premises, the owner of any equipment
            or occupier of the workplace (including any such owner or
            occupier of the workplace being a company registered
            under the Companies Act 1967, a variable capital company
            incorporated under the Variable Capital Companies Act
            2018, or a co‑operative society registered under the
            Co‑operative Societies Act 1979) in any such manner as
            aforesaid or by delivering it, or a true copy thereof, to the
            manager, foreman or other responsible person at the
            workplace.

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           70

 (2) Any such document may be addressed, for the purpose of the
service thereof on the occupier of a workplace, to “the occupier of the
workplace” at the proper postal address of the workplace, without
further name or description.

 (3) Subsections (1) and (2) apply, with the necessary modifications,
to documents required or authorised under this Act to be sent to any
person, firm, owner or occupier of the workplace, and to the sending,
addressing and delivering of such documents.

Amendment of Schedules

 64.—(1) Subject to this section, the Minister may, by order in the
Gazette, amend any of the Schedules.

                                                                                                            [18/2011]

 (2) The Minister may prescribe in the order under subsection (1)
such transitional, incidental and consequential provisions as may be
necessary or expedient.

 (3) Every order made under subsection (1) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Regulations

 65.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for carrying out the
purposes and provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may make
regulations for or with respect to all or any of the following matters:

       (a) any matter relating to the registration of a factory,
            including —

               (i) the class or description of factories which require
                   registration;

              (ii) the form and manner of application for the
                   registration;

             (iii) the conditions of registration;

             (iv) the circumstances under which an application for
                   registration may be granted or refused;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

71  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

    (v) the issuance of a certificate of registration of a
         factory;

    (vi) the duration of a certificate of registration of a
         factory;

    (vii) the form, custody and maintenance of any register to
          be kept by the Commissioner of any premises
          registered as a factory or in respect of which a
          certificate of registration of a factory is issued;

    (viii) the circumstances under which a certificate of
           registration of a factory may be renewed, extended
           or revoked;

    (ix) the imposition of any duty on the occupier of a
         factory to provide such information to the
         Commissioner with respect to any change in any
         matter in relation to the factory;

    (x) the bringing of appeals to the Minister in respect of
         the registration of factories or the issue of certificates
         of registration of factories;

    (b) the lighting, ventilation, temperature, humidity, radiant
         heat, noise, drainage and hygiene in workplaces, and the
         fixing of standards therefor;

    (c) the provision of first-aid resources and the appointment of
        first-aiders in workplaces;

    (d) the procedures and resources required in case of fire at any
         workplace;

    (e) the means (if any) required for removing impurities from
        the air in workplaces and for reducing excessive heat and
        noise in workplaces;

    (f) the permissible exposure levels, control and disposal of
        any toxic or noxious materials, whether solid, liquid,
        gaseous or vaporous;

    (g) the handling, storage and disposal of any harmful
         organisms and biohazardous material;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           72

(h) the use and control of, and the safeguards and safety
     measures when using, any dangerous machinery or
     equipment;

          (i) the types of clothing and appliances to be provided for use
              at work;

          (j) in relation to any hoist or lift, lifting gear, lifting appliance
              and lifting machine, steam boiler, steam receiver, air
              receiver, refrigerating plant pressure receiver, or any other
              machine —

          (i) the conditions under which it may be used and any
              safety requirement in relation to its use;

          (ii) its construction, use or maintenance;

          (iii) the issue of certificates of competency to persons
                who may operate, or take charge of and control over
                it;

          (iv) any examination or test which is required to be
               conducted on it;

          (v) the person who may examine or test it to ensure its
               safe working condition;

          (vi) the manner in which any examination or test is to be
               carried out;

          (vii) the frequency of such examination or test;

          (viii) the form, custody and inspection of any certificate or
                 report of such examination or test;

          (ix) the duty of any approved person who conducts such
               examination or test; and

          (x) the imposition of any duty on any person in order to
               ensure its safe operation or the safety of persons at
               work;

          (k) the fees to be paid in respect of any matter or thing done or
              document issued under this Act;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

73  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

    (l) the issue of certificates of competency to persons taking
        charge of or operating internal combustion engines;

    (m) the nature of the examination for certificates of
         competency to be issued to persons taking charge of or
         operating steam boilers or internal combustion engines, the
         constitution of a board of examiners, the form of the
         certificates of competency, and the fees to be paid for such
         examination and certificates;

    (n) the accreditation of accredited training providers to
         conduct safety and health training courses for persons
         who are required to attend such courses under this Act, the
         establishment of a scheme to accredit training providers,
         and the fees to be paid by the accredited training providers
         under that scheme;

    (o) the nature of any gas plant that may be used;

    (p) the type of fittings and pipes that may be used in all or any
         types of gas plant;

    (q) the inspection of gas plants;

    (r) the prevention or minimisation of risk of bodily injury or
        injury to health where any manufacture, machinery,
        equipment, installation, plant, article or process used or
        work carried out in any workplace involves such risk;

    (s) the procedures for preparing and publishing a learning
        report;

    (t) the arrangements to be made for the medical supervision
        and medical examination (not including medical treatment
        of a preventive character), and for the removal from
        exposure of risk of any person or any class of persons at
        work;

    (u) the health, safety and welfare in respect of the following
         types of work:

    (i) building operations undertaken by way of trade or
        business, or for the purpose of any industrial or
        commercial undertaking;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           74

          (ii) work of engineering construction undertaken by way
               of trade or business, or for the purpose of any
               industrial or commercial undertaking;

          (iii) design and management of building operations or
                work of engineering construction;

          (iv) work involving the use of or exposure to pesticides;

          (v) maintenance and repair of roads;

          (vi) building renovation work;

          (vii) lift maintenance and repair;

          (viii) work in confined spaces;

          (ix) work involving the use of visual display units;

          (x) work involving a steam boiler, a steam receiver or an
               air receiver; and

          (xi) any other process, work or operation —

          (A) which is of such a nature as to cause any risk of
               bodily injury to any person at work; or

          (B) which poses any health hazard to persons at
               work;

(v) the conduct of any risk assessment or safety and health
     arrangement and the duties of any occupier, employer,
     platform operator or any other person in relation to the
     conduct of the risk assessment or the safety and health
     arrangement;

                                                                     [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

(w) the implementation of any safety and health management
     system and the duties of any occupier, employer, platform
     operator or any other person in relation to the
     implementation of the safety and health management
     system;

                                                                     [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

(x) in relation to the Council, the payment of allowances to a
     member of the Council who is not a public servant;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

75  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

       (y) the prescribing of anything that is required or permitted to
            be prescribed under this Act.

                                                                                                [18/2011; 44/2017]

 (3) The regulations made under this section may provide that any
contravention of any provision of the regulations shall be an offence
punishable —

    (a) in the case of an offence that may cause, or result in, any
         death or serious bodily injury to an individual or any
         dangerous occurrence in a workplace, with a fine not
         exceeding $50,000 or with imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 2 years or with both; and

       (b) in the case of any other offence, with a fine not exceeding
            $20,000 or with imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            2 years or with both.

                                                                                                           [44/2017]

 (4) The regulations may impose duties on any person who has
control or influence over any aspect of workplace safety or health,
including but not limited to any occupier, owner, employer, platform
operator, manufacturer, designer or employed person.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

 (5) Regulations made under subsection (2)(r) may, among other
things —

    (a) prohibit the employment of, or modify or limit the hours of
         employment of, any person at work in connection with any
         manufacture, machinery, plant, process or description of
         work;

    (b) prohibit, limit or control the use of any material or process;

    (c) prescribe maximum weights which may be lifted, carried
        or moved by any person at work;

    (d) prescribe the qualifications and minimum age of, and the
         training to be received by, persons who are at work using
         any machinery or plant; and

    (e) prescribe the procedures to be undertaken before the work
        can be carried out.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           76

(6) Regulations made under subsection (2)(t) may —

(a) require the medical supervision and medical examination
     under the regulations to be carried out by persons
     registered with the Commissioner; and

(b) prescribe the qualifications and other conditions to be
     satisfied for such registration.

(7) Regulations made under subsection (2)(u) may —

(a) apply any of the provisions of this Act to the classes of
     premises, processes or operations mentioned in that
     subsection;

(b) impose duties on persons involved in the type of work
     mentioned in that subsection, including any developer,
     contractor, architect or engineer; and

          (c) prescribe the qualifications and training to be received by
              persons involved in the type of work mentioned in that
              subsection.

 (8) All regulations made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Saving and transitional provisions

 66.—(1) Any subsidiary legislation made under the repealed Act
and in force immediately before 1 March 2006, so far as it is not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, continues in force in
factories as if made under this Act until it is revoked or repealed.

 (2) Any written law or document referring to the repealed Act or
any provision thereof is, as far as may be necessary for preserving its
effect, to be construed as referring to or as including a reference to
this Act or the corresponding provision in this Act, as the case may
be.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

77  Health Act 2006                                                2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                           Sections 4(1) and 64(1)

                            DANGEROUS OCCURRENCES

 1. Bursting of a revolving vessel, wheel, grindstone or grinding wheel moved by
mechanical power.

 2. Collapse or failure of a crane, derrick, winch, hoist, piling frame or other
appliance used in raising or lowering persons or goods, or any load bearing part
thereof (except breakage of chain or rope slings), or the overturning of a crane.

 3. Explosion or fire damage to the structure of any room or place in which
persons are at work, or to any machinery or plant contained therein, and resulting
in the complete suspension of ordinary work in the room or place or stoppage of
machinery or plant for 5 hours or more, where the explosion or fire is due to the
ignition of dust, gas or vapour, or the ignition of celluloid or substance composed
wholly or in part of celluloid.

 4. Electrical short circuit or failure of electrical machinery, plant or apparatus,
attended by explosion or fire or causing structural damage thereto, and involving
its stoppage or disuse for 5 hours or more.

 5. Explosion or fire affecting any room in which persons are at work and causing
complete suspension of ordinary work therein for 24 hours or more.

 6. Explosion or failure of structure of a steam boiler or of a receiver or container
used for the storage at a pressure greater than atmospheric pressure of any gas or
gases (including air) or any liquid or solid resulting from the compression of gas.

 7. Failure or collapse of formwork or its supports.

 8. Collapse, in part or in whole, of a scaffold exceeding 15 metres in height or of
a suspended scaffold or a hanging scaffold from which any person may fall more
than 2 metres.

 9. Accidental seepage or entry of seawater into a dry dock or floating dock
causing flooding of the dry dock or floating dock.

                                                                                                            [18/2011]

     SECOND SCHEDULE       Sections 4(1) and 64(1)

    OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES

Diseases caused by physical agents
  1. Barotrauma
  2. Cataract due to infra‑red, ultraviolet or ionising radiation

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                                      78

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

  3. Compressed air illness or its sequelae, including dysbaric osteonecrosis
  4. Diseases caused by excessive heat
  5. Diseases caused by ionising radiation
  6. Noise‑induced hearing loss
Diseases caused by chemical agents
  7. Poisoning by aniline
  8. Poisoning by arsenic
  9. Poisoning by benzene or a homologue of benzene
 10. Poisoning by beryllium
 11. Poisoning by cadmium
 12. Poisoning by carbamates
 13. Poisoning by carbon disulphide
 14. Poisoning by carbon monoxide gas
 15. Poisoning by cyanide
 16. Poisoning by halogen derivatives of hydrocarbon compounds
 17. Poisoning by hydrogen sulphide
 18. Poisoning by lead
 19. Poisoning by manganese
 20. Poisoning by mercury
 21. Poisoning by organophosphates
 22. Poisoning by oxides of nitrogen
 23. Poisoning by phosphorus
 24. Toxic anaemia
 25. Toxic hepatitis
Diseases caused by biological agents
 26. Anthrax
 27. Glanders
 28. Leptospirosis or its sequelae
 29. Occupational infectious disease

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

79  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

Musculoskeletal disorders
 30. Work‑related musculoskeletal disorder
Respiratory disorders
 31. Asbestosis
 32. Byssinosis
 33. Occupational asthma
 34. Silicosis
Skin disorders
 35. Occupational skin disease
Cancers (Malignant diseases)
 36. Malignant mesothelioma
 37. Occupational liver angiosarcoma
 38. Occupational skin cancer

                                            [S 754/2025 wef 01/12/2025]

                            THIRD SCHEDULE

                                                                                           Sections 4(1) and 64(1)

                   WORK OF ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION

 1. The construction of any railway line or siding.

 2. The construction, structural alteration or repair (including repointing and
repainting) or the demolition of any dock, harbour, inland navigation, tunnel,
bridge, viaduct, waterworks, reservoir, pipeline, aqueduct, sewer, sewerage works
or gas holder.

 3. The construction, laying, structural alteration, inspection, maintenance,
repair, demolition or removal of —

        (a) any pipeline for the conveyance of water, gas or any other thing;

        (b) any drain, whether open or covered, except open drains situated in
             domestic premises; or

        (c) any underground electrical cable and communication cable.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           80

          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

 4. The inspection, repair or maintenance of any manhole, sump, inspection
chamber, valve chamber, and any other similar confined structure providing
access to pipelines or underground electrical cables and communication cables.

5. The construction of any road or car park.

6. The reclamation of any land.

                                                                    [18/2011]

                           FOURTH SCHEDULE

                                                                                           Sections 5(2) and 64(1)

                    WORKPLACES SPECIFIED AS FACTORIES

 1. Any premises using an assembly-line manufacturing process in connection
with the manufacturing, for the purposes of trade or gain, of any goods or products
using mechanical power, not being a restaurant or kitchen.

 2. Any premises used for the manufacturing, for the purposes of trade or gain, of
fabricated metal products, machinery or equipment.

 3. Any premises used for the manufacturing, for the purposes of trade or gain, of
wood products using mechanical power.

 4. Any premises used for the production of gas for commercial sale.

 5. Any premises used for the manufacture of pharmaceutical products or its
intermediates.

 6. Any premises where the printing by letter press, offset, lithography,
photogravure, rotogravure or other similar process, or the binding of such
printed materials, is carried out.

 7. Any premises where mechanical power is used in connection with the sorting,
packing, handling or storing of articles.

 8. Any premises used for the processing or manufacturing of flammable,
corrosive or toxic substances, including petroleum, petroleum products,
petrochemical or petrochemical products.

 9. Any premises where the treatment, coating or electroplating of metal products
involving the use of flammable, corrosive or toxic substances is carried out.

 10. Any premises where the washing or filling of bottles, containers or vessels
that contains or had contained flammable, corrosive or toxic substances is carried
out, not being any premises where the filling of fuel into vehicles for their
propulsion is carried out as a commercial undertaking.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Workplace Safety and

81  Health Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

    FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

 11. Any premises used for the storage of gas (including liquefied gas) in a
container having a storage capacity of not less than 140 cubic metres, not being
any premises where the gas is stored for filling of fuel into vehicles for their
propulsion as a commercial undertaking.

 12. Any premises used for the bulk storage of toxic or flammable liquid
(excluding liquefied gas) in a container, not being an underground container, that
has a storage capacity of not less than 5,000 cubic metres.

 13. Any yard (including any dock, wharf, jetty, quay and the precincts thereof)
where the construction, reconstruction, repair, refitting, finishing or breaking up
of ships is carried out, including the waters adjacent to any such yard where the
construction, reconstruction, repair, refitting, finishing or breaking up of ships is
carried out by or on behalf of the occupier of that yard.

 14. Any premises where the construction, reconstruction or repair of
locomotives, aircraft, vehicles or other plant for use for transport purposes is
carried on as ancillary to a transport undertaking or other industrial or commercial
undertaking, not being any premises used for the purpose of housing locomotives,
aircraft or vehicles where only cleaning, washing, running repairs or minor
adjustments are carried out.

 15. Any premises where building operations or any work of engineering
construction are carried out.

 16. Any premises where articles are made or prepared incidentally to the
carrying on of any building operations or any work of engineering construction,
not being premises in which such operations or work are being carried out.

 17. Any premises where work is carried out for or in connection with the
generating of electrical energy for supply by way of trade or for purposes of gain.

 18. Any premises where mechanical power is used for the purposes of or in
connection with a water supply.

 19. Any sewage works where mechanical power is used and any pumping
station used in connection therewith.

                                                                                                            [18/2011]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.                     Health Act 2006                                 82

          FIFTH SCHEDULE

                                                                       Sections 16(9), 17(7) and 64(1)

MACHINERY, EQUIPMENT OR HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
                                   PART 1

                  MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT

1. Scaffolds and any materials or components used to erect them
2. All lifting equipment
3. Forklifts
4. Power presses

5. Bar-benders, sheet benders and sheet rollers

                                                 [S 929/2024 wef 01/01/2025]

 6. Any equipment or piping intended for operation under pressure, including all
statutory pressure vessels

 7. Any equipment or piping intended to contain corrosive, toxic or flammable
substances

 8. Welding equipment, including any accessory, apparatus or fitting necessary to
enable its use

9. Materials or components used for the construction of support structures

10. Explosive powered tools

 11. Equipment used for abrasive blasting, including any accessory, apparatus or
fitting necessary to enable its use and operation

                                                                                    [S 929/2024 wef 01/01/2025]

12. Lathes and milling machines

                                                 [S 929/2024 wef 01/01/2025]

13. Machines designed for industrial use for any of the following purposes:

(a) cutting, including table saws and slicing machines;

(b) packaging, including palletisers, balers and compactors;

(c) mixing by mechanical movement, including paddle mixers and ribbon
     mixers;

(d) handling or processing food, including grinders, mincers, blenders and
     juicers

                                                                         [S 929/2024 wef 01/01/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                             Workplace Safety and

83                           Health Act 2006                      2020 Ed.

                      FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

                             PART 2

                      HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES

1. Corrosive substances

2. Flammable substances

3. Explosives

4. Oxidising substances

5. Pyrophoric substances

6. Gases under pressure

7. Organic peroxides

8. Self heating substances

9. Self-reactive substances

10. Substances which in contact with water, emit flammable gases

11. Toxic substances

12. Mutagens

13. Carcinogens

14. Teratogens

15. Sensitizers

16. Irritants

17. Substances hazardous to aquatic environment    [S 929/2024 wef 01/01/2025]
18. Combustible dust                               [S 929/2024 wef 01/01/2025]

                                          PART 3

                                      DEFINITIONS

In this Schedule —

    “abrasive” has the meaning given by regulation 2 of the Workplace Safety
        and Health (Abrasive Blasting) Regulations 2008 (G.N. No. S 607/2008);

    “blasting” has the meaning given by regulation 2 of the Workplace Safety
        and Health (Abrasive Blasting) Regulations 2008;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Workplace Safety and

2020 Ed.  Health Act 2006                                           84

          FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

“combustible dust” has the meaning given by regulation 2 of the Workplace
   Safety and Health (General Provisions) Regulations (Rg 1);

“toxic substance” has the meaning given by regulation 2 of the Workplace
   Safety and Health (General Provisions) Regulations.

                                                                            [S 929/2024 wef 01/01/2025]

                            SIXTH SCHEDULE

                                                                                 Sections 27(2), 62(1) and 64(1)

                            EXEMPT PERSONS AT WORK

 1. Any member of the Singapore Police Force (including the Special
Constabulary), Singapore Prisons Service, Internal Security Department,
Central Narcotics Bureau, Singapore Armed Forces, Singapore Civil Defence
Force and the Immigration & Checkpoints Authority while on duty.

 2. A crew member at work on board any ship, aircraft or any other international
mode of transport which does not pose a risk to the safety and health of any person
other than the crew member himself or herself or any other crew member on board
the ship, aircraft or other international mode of transport.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

WORKPLACE SAFETY AND
      HEALTH ACT 2006

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 7 of 2006 — Workplace Safety and Health Act 2006

Date of First Reading     : 17 October 2005
                                (Bill No. 36/2005 published on
                                18 October 2005)

Date of Second and Third  : 17 January 2006
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 March 2006

Note: The Workplace Safety and Health Act 2006 repealed the Factories Act
        (Chapter 104, 1998 Revised Edition).

2. G. N. No. S 72/2007 — Workplace Safety and Health (Workplaces
                                  Subject to Act) Order 2007

Date of operation         : 1 March 2007

3. 2007 Revised Edition — Workplace Safety and Health Act
                                    (Chapter 354A)

Date of operation         : 31 July 2007

4. G. N. No. S 634/2007 — Workplace Safety and Health Act (Amendment
                                   of First Schedule) Order 2007

Date of operation         : 1 March 2008

5. Act 9 of 2008 — Workplace Safety and Health (Amendment) Act 2008

Date of First Reading     : 15 February 2008
                                (Bill No. 2/2008 published on
                                16 February 2008)

Date of Second and Third  : 6 March 2008
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 April 2008

6. 2009 Revised Edition — Workplace Safety and Health Act
                                    (Chapter 354A)

Date of operation         : 31 July 2009

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                          ii

7. Act 4 of 2010 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2010

Date of First Reading     : 23 November 2009
                                (Bill No. 26/2009 published on
                                23 November 2009)

Date of Second and Third  : 12 January 2010
Readings

Date of commencement      : 17 February 2010 (section 6)

8. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010

Date of First Reading     : 26 April 2010
                                (Bill No. 11/2010 published on
                                26 April 2010)

Date of Second and Third  : 19 May 2010
Readings

Date of commencement      : 2 January 2011

9. Act 18 of 2011 — Workplace Safety and Health (Amendment) Act 2011

Date of First Reading     : 10 March 2011
                                (Bill No. 13/2011 published on
                                10 March 2011)

Date of Second and Third  : 11 April 2011
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 September 2011

10. Act 5 of 2014 — Subordinate Courts (Amendment) Act 2014

Date of First Reading     : 11 November 2013
                                (Bill No. 26/2013 published on
                                11 November 2013)

Date of Second and Third  : 21 January 2014
Readings

Date of commencement      : 14 April 2014

11. Act 44 of 2017 — Workplace Safety and Health (Amendment) Act 2017

Date of First Reading     : 2 October 2017
                                (Bill No. 38/2017 published on
                                2 October 2017)

Date of Second and Third  : 6 November 2017
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 January 2018

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                          iii

12. Act 10 of 2018 — Enterprise Singapore Board Act 2018

Date of First Reading     : 8 January 2018
                                (Bill No. 3/2018 published on
                                8 January 2018)

Date of Second and Third  : [5 February 2018]
Readings

Date of commencement      : [1 April 2018]

13. Act 27 of 2019 — Work Injury Compensation Act 2019

Date of First Reading     : 5 August 2019
                                (Bill No. 21/2019)

Date of Second and Third  : 3 September 2019
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 September 2020

14. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019

Date of First Reading     : 7 October 2019
                                (Bill No. 32/2019)

Date of Second and Third  : 5 November 2019
Readings

Date of commencement      : 2 January 2021

15. 2020 Revised Edition — Workplace Safety and
                                     Health Act 2006

Operation                 : 31 December 2021

16. G.N. No. S 26/2022 — Variable Capital Companies (Consequential
                                   Amendments to Other Acts) Order 2022

Commencement              : 13 January 2022

17. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022

Date of First Reading     : 12 September 2022
                                (Bill No. 24/2022)

Date of Second and Third  : 3 October 2022
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 November 2022 (section 20(15))

18. Act 30 of 2024 — Platform Workers Act 2024

Bill                      : 26/2024

First Reading             : 6 August 2024

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                      iv

Second and Third Readings : 10 September 2024

Commencement          : 1 January 2025

19. G.N. No. S 929/2024 — Workplace Safety and Health Act 2006
                                    (Amendment of Fifth Schedule) Order 2024

Commencement          : 1 January 2025

20. Act 12 of 2020 — Building Control (Amendment) Act 2020

Bill                  : 10/2020

First Reading         : 4 February 2020

Second and Third Readings : 6 March 2020

Commencement          : 1 October 2025

21. G.N. No. S 754/2025 — Workplace Safety and Health Act 2006
                                    (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2025

Date of commencement  : 1 December 2025

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
   COMPARATIVE TABLE

WORKPLACE SAFETY AND
      HEALTH ACT 2006

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    2009 Ed.
—                          5—(3) [Deleted by Act 18 of 2011]
5—(3)
                              (4)
   (4)                        (5)
   (5)                        (6)
   (6)                        (7)
   (7)                        (8)
   (8)                        (9)
15—(4)                     15—(3A)
   (5)                        (4)
—                          61—(3) [Deleted by Act 44 of 2017]
[Omitted as spent]         66—(1)
[Omitted as spent]            (2)
[Omitted as spent]            (3)
[Omitted as spent]            (4)
[Omitted as spent]            (5)
[Omitted as spent]            (6)
[Omitted as spent]            (7)
[Omitted as spent]            (8)
[Omitted as spent]            (9)
[Omitted as spent]            (10)
[Omitted as spent]            (11)
[Omitted as spent]            (12)
[Omitted as spent]            (13)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
        2020 Ed.  ii         2009 Ed.

66—(1)                 (14)
   (2)                 (15)

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
