                   PUBLIC DEFENDERS ACT 2022

                               (No. 23 of 2022)

                           ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                                            PART 1
                                      PRELIMINARY
Section
     1. Short title and commencement
     2. Interpretation

                                            PART 2
                APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF PUBLIC DEFENDER,

                                    SOLICITORS, ETC.
     3. Appointment of Chief Public Defender, etc.
     4. Panels of solicitors
     5. Exclusion or removal of solicitor
     6. Fees for solicitors
     7. Protection from personal liability

                                            PART 3
                               CRIMINAL DEFENCE AID
     8. Scope of criminal defence aid
     9. General provisions for application for criminal defence aid
   10. Special provisions for application for criminal defence aid for
            minor
   11. Power of Chief Public Defender to make inquiries, etc.
   12. Grant of Aid
   13. Chief Public Defender, public defender or assigned solicitor to
            act for aided accused person, etc.
   14. Application for Grant of Aid by more than one accused person in
            same proceedings, etc.
   15. Variation of Grant of Aid
   16. Cancellation of Grant of Aid
   17. Contributions
   18. Criminal defence aid not to discontinue without permission

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2        NO. 23 OF 2022

Section  Court may order payment of costs by aided accused person in
   19.   certain circumstances
         Application by aided accused person for criminal defence aid for
   20.   criminal appeal, etc.
         Costs awarded against Chief Public Defender or public defender
   21.

                                           PART 4

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   22. Privileges and rights attaching to certain relationships
   23. False or misleading statement, etc.
   24. Rules regulating procedure and practice of court
   25. Regulations
   26. Related amendment to Evidence Act 1893
   27. Related amendments to Legal Profession Act 1966
   28. Related amendments to Singapore Academy of Law Act 1988

            The Schedule — Excluded offences and
                                  excluded classes of offences

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
PUBLIC DEFENDERS  3

An Act to provide for the appointment of a Chief Public Defender and
  public defenders in connection with the provision of legal
  representation to accused persons of limited means in certain
  criminal proceedings and for connected purposes, and to make
  related amendments to certain other Acts.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
4  NO. 23 OF 2022

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act is the Public Defenders Act 2022 and comes into
operation on a date that the Minister appoints by notification in the
Gazette.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “aided accused person” means an individual who is issued a
         Grant of Aid;

      “assigned solicitor” means a solicitor from an appropriate panel
         of solicitors established under section 4 who is assigned any
         matter mentioned in section 4(1)(a) or (b) by the Chief Public
         Defender;

      “Chief Public Defender” means the Chief Public Defender
         appointed under section 3(1);

      “court” means any court of competent jurisdiction in Singapore
         before which any proceedings are heard;

      “criminal appeal” means any appeal under Part 20 of the
         Criminal Procedure Code 2010;

      “criminal application” means —

              (a) any application for review of an earlier decision, a
                   case to be stated, a criminal reference or a criminal
                   revision of a case under Division 1B, 2, 3 or 4 of
                   Part 20 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, and
                   includes any case stated or revision of a case on a
                   court’s own motion or any criminal reference by the
                   Public Prosecutor mentioned in that Part; or

              (b) any criminal motion under Division 5 of Part 20 of
                   the Criminal Procedure Code 2010;

      “criminal defence aid” means criminal defence aid granted
         under this Act;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
PUBLIC DEFENDERS                                         5

    “excluded offence” has the meaning given by section 8(2);

    “Grant of Aid” means a document issued under section 12 or 20
        stating that criminal defence aid is granted to an individual
        (whether on a provisional basis or otherwise);

    “minor” means an individual who is below 21 years of age;

    “permanent resident” means a permanent resident of Singapore
        as defined by section 2 of the Immigration Act 1959;

                                                                             [Act 31 of 2023 wef 01/12/2025]

    “proceedings” means any proceedings mentioned in section 8(1)
        or 12(8) in respect of which a Grant of Aid may be or is
        issued;

    “public defender” means a public officer or any other individual
        appointed under section 3(6);

    “solicitor” means an advocate and solicitor of the Supreme
        Court.

(2) For the purposes of this Act, a guardian of a minor is —

      (a) a parent (whether biological or adoptive) of the minor;

      (b) an individual who, not being a parent of the minor, is
           lawfully appointed by deed or will or by an order of a
           competent court to be the guardian of the minor; or

      (c) any other individual whom the Chief Public Defender has
           reasonable grounds to believe —

             (i) has for the time being the charge, custody, or care
                  and control, of the minor; or

            (ii) is for the time being making financial provision for
                  the support of the minor.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
6  NO. 23 OF 2022

                                    PART 2

         APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF PUBLIC DEFENDER,
                            SOLICITORS, ETC.

Appointment of Chief Public Defender, etc.

 3.—(1) The Minister must appoint a Chief Public Defender who is
responsible for carrying out this Act and for the administration of the
Public Defender’s Office.

 (2) In addition, the Minister may appoint any number of Deputy
Chief Public Defenders and Assistant Chief Public Defenders that the
Minister considers necessary to assist the Chief Public Defender.

 (3) An individual must not be appointed to be or to act temporarily
as the Chief Public Defender, a Deputy Chief Public Defender or an
Assistant Chief Public Defender unless the individual is —

       (a) a qualified person as defined in section 2(1) of the Legal
            Profession Act 1966; or

       (b) a solicitor.

 (4) A Deputy Chief Public Defender and an Assistant Chief Public
Defender have all the powers and may perform all the functions of the
Chief Public Defender, except the powers exercisable under
subsection (6).

 (5) Except in subsection (6), or unless the context otherwise
requires, any reference in this Act to the Chief Public Defender
includes a reference to a Deputy Chief Public Defender or an
Assistant Chief Public Defender.

 (6) The Chief Public Defender may —

       (a) appoint any number of public officers and other
            individuals that the Chief Public Defender considers
            necessary and whom the Chief Public Defender
            considers are duly qualified and experienced, as public
            defenders for the purpose of assisting the Chief Public
            Defender, a Deputy Chief Public Defender or an Assistant
            Chief Public Defender, in carrying out any of their
            functions under this Act; and

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
PUBLIC DEFENDERS                                         7

       (b) assign to those appointed public officers and other
            individuals any functions as the Chief Public Defender
            considers appropriate for the purpose mentioned in
            paragraph (a).

 (7) Every public defender who is not a public officer is deemed to
be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal Code 1871 in
relation to his or her carrying out of any function as a public defender.

 (8) Despite any other written law, for the purposes of this Act, the
following individuals have the right to appear and plead in all courts
according to the law in force in those courts:

       (a) the Chief Public Defender and every Deputy Chief Public
            Defender or Assistant Chief Public Defender;

       (b) a public defender who is assigned under subsection (6)(b)
            any function that requires the public defender to appear and
            plead in those courts.

Panels of solicitors

 4.—(1) The Chief Public Defender may, if he or she considers
necessary, establish one or more panels of solicitors for one or both of
the following purposes:

       (a) in relation to an application for criminal defence aid, to
            investigate and make a report on the application, or to give
            any opinion on the application or on any question of law
            arising out of the application;

       (b) to act for individuals receiving criminal defence aid.

 (2) Separate panels may be established for different purposes and
for different courts.

 (3) The Chief Public Defender may determine —

       (a) the term of appointment of a solicitor to a panel and the
            conditions (if any) of his or her appointment; and

       (b) the assignment of any matter mentioned in
            subsection (1)(a) or (b) to the solicitor.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
8  NO. 23 OF 2022

 (4) A solicitor appointed to a panel under subsection (1) is entitled
to have the solicitor’s name on the panel during his or her term of
appointment, unless there is any ground under section 5(1) for the
solicitor’s exclusion or removal from the panel.

 (5) Despite any privilege arising out of the relationship between
solicitor and client, a solicitor has a duty to disclose any information
or give any opinion to the Chief Public Defender which may enable
the Chief Public Defender to perform the Chief Public Defender’s
functions under this Act, including any information or opinion that
may reasonably be taken into account —

       (a) by the Chief Public Defender in determining whether —

               (i) to refuse an application for criminal defence aid; or

              (ii) to vary or cancel a Grant of Aid issued to an aided
                   accused person; or

       (b) by a board mentioned in section 12(1)(c)(ii) in determining
            whether there are merits to an application for criminal
            defence aid in accordance with that provision.

Exclusion or removal of solicitor

 5.—(1) The Chief Public Defender may exclude or remove
(whether permanently or temporarily) a solicitor from a panel —

       (a) in the case of a solicitor appointed to a panel for the
            purpose mentioned in section 4(1)(b), if the solicitor’s
            practising certificate ceases to be in force for any reason;

       (b) if the solicitor has requested that the Chief Public Defender
            remove the solicitor from the panel;

       (c) if the solicitor has shown by his or her conduct when
            assigned to act for aided accused persons, or by his or her
            professional conduct generally, that the solicitor is not
            suitable to remain on the panel; or

       (d) if, in the opinion of the Chief Public Defender —

               (i) the solicitor is not suitable to be or to remain on the
                   panel for any other reason; or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
PUBLIC DEFENDERS                                         9

              (ii) it is necessary or expedient to exclude or remove the
                   solicitor from the panel for any other reason.

 (2) Where a solicitor is aggrieved by a decision of the Chief Public
Defender under subsection (1), the solicitor may appeal to the
General Division of the High Court against the decision.

 (3) The General Division of the High Court may confirm or quash
the decision appealed against or may substitute that decision as the
General Division of the High Court thinks fit, and the decision of the
General Division of the High Court is final.

Fees for solicitors

 6.—(1) Subject to subsection (2) and regulations made under
section 25, the Chief Public Defender may pay to a solicitor any fees
agreed between the Chief Public Defender and the solicitor for any
work mentioned in section 4(1)(a) or (b) done by the solicitor.

 (2) In determining the fees to be agreed with a solicitor, the Chief
Public Defender must have regard to whether the fees are reasonable
and proportionate taking into account all relevant circumstances,
including but not limited to —

       (a) the complexity, difficulty or novelty of the issues or
            questions of law involved;

       (b) the skill, specialised knowledge and responsibility
            required of, and the time and labour expended by, the
            solicitor;

       (c) the number of charges brought against the applicant for
            criminal defence aid or the aided accused person, and the
            severity of the punishment for the offences concerned; and

       (d) the requirement to maintain the accessibility and
            affordability of criminal defence aid taking into account
            the means and other circumstances of individuals eligible
            for criminal defence aid.

Protection from personal liability

 7.—(1) Subsection (2) applies where an act is done or an omission
is made —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
10  NO. 23 OF 2022

       (a) by the Chief Public Defender, a Deputy Chief Public
            Defender, an Assistant Chief Public Defender or a public
            defender in the exercise or purported exercise of a function
            under this Act (except the provision of any legal advice or
            legal representation to an aided accused person in any
            proceedings to which a Grant of Aid relates);

       (b) by a solicitor in the exercise or purported exercise of a
            function under section 4(1)(a) (including, if applicable, in
            discharging a duty of a solicitor mentioned in section 4(5));

       (c) by a solicitor who is a member of a board mentioned in
            section 12(1)(c)(ii) in the exercise or purported exercise of
            a function to give an opinion whether there are merits to an
            application under section 12(1)(c) or 20 (including, if
            applicable, in discharging a duty of a solicitor mentioned in
            section 4(5)); or

       (d) by a person authorised by the Minister under section 12(9),
            in the exercise or purported exercise of the power under
            section 12(7)(b).

 (2) No liability shall lie personally against any person mentioned in
subsection (1) who did the act or made the omission if the act was
done or the omission was made in good faith and with reasonable
care.

 (3) In subsection (1), “function” includes power and duty and
“exercise of a function” includes performance of a duty.

                                    PART 3

                       CRIMINAL DEFENCE AID

Scope of criminal defence aid

 8.—(1) Subject to section 12(8), criminal defence aid may be
granted to a citizen or permanent resident of Singapore in respect of
any of the following proceedings:

       (a) any criminal proceedings instituted against him or her in
            respect of an offence that is not an excluded offence;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
PUBLIC DEFENDERS                                         11

       (b) any proceedings relating to a criminal appeal or a criminal
            application arising from any criminal proceedings
            mentioned in paragraph (a).

 (2) In subsection (1), an excluded offence is —

       (a) an offence specified as an excluded offence in the
            Schedule; or

       (b) an offence belonging to any excluded class of offences
            specified in the Schedule.

 (3) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend the Schedule.

 (4) The Minister may, in an order under subsection (3), make
provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on the
enactment of the order as the Minister considers necessary or
expedient.

 (5) All orders made under subsection (3) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

General provisions for application for criminal defence aid

 9.—(1) Subject to this section and section 10, any individual who
wishes to receive criminal defence aid may apply to the Chief Public
Defender for the grant of criminal defence aid.

 (2) An application for the grant of criminal defence aid must be —

       (a) made in the form and manner required by the Chief Public
            Defender; and

       (b) accompanied by any documents and information required
            by the Chief Public Defender.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), where an application for the grant of
criminal defence aid is not approved under section 12 or 20, the Chief
Public Defender may refuse to consider any subsequent application
for the grant of criminal defence aid in respect of the same matter.

 (4) Subsection (3) does not apply if the Chief Public Defender is of
the opinion that there are reasonable grounds to believe that there is
any change in circumstances despite the subsequent application being
in respect of the same matter.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
12  NO. 23 OF 2022

Special provisions for application for criminal defence aid for
minor

 10.—(1) An application for the grant of criminal defence aid to a
minor must be made on behalf of the minor by a guardian of the
minor.

 (2) Where an application is made under subsection (1), a reference
in this Act to an applicant for criminal defence aid is to be construed
as a reference to the minor except where provided otherwise.

 (3) Where —

       (a) an aided accused person was a minor when criminal
            defence aid was granted to him or her in respect of any
            proceedings;

       (b) those proceedings have not concluded on the date on which
            the aided accused person attains 21 years of age; and

       (c) the aided accused person wishes to continue receiving
            criminal defence aid in respect of those proceedings after
            attaining 21 years of age,

the aided accused person must give to the Chief Public Defender a
written consent in accordance with subsection (4) to continue
receiving criminal defence aid in respect of those proceedings.

 (4) The written consent mentioned in subsection (3) must be —

       (a) given to the Chief Public Defender within the prescribed
            time after the aided accused person attains 21 years of age;
            and

       (b) in the form and manner required by the Chief Public
            Defender.

 (5) Every aided accused person who gives a written consent under
subsection (3) is deemed to have made a fresh application for criminal
defence aid in his or her own right.

Power of Chief Public Defender to make inquiries, etc.

 11.—(1) Where an application is made for criminal defence aid, the
Chief Public Defender may —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
PUBLIC DEFENDERS                                         13

       (a) make any inquiries that the Chief Public Defender
            considers necessary with respect to the means and other
            circumstances of the applicant and the merits of the
            application;

       (b) require the applicant to provide any documents and
            information that the Chief Public Defender requires for
            the purpose of considering the application;

       (c) require the applicant to attend personally before the Chief
            Public Defender to answer questions about the application
            and the proceedings concerned;

       (d) refer the application or any matter arising out of the
            application to a solicitor from an appropriate panel of
            solicitors established under section 4, for any of the
            purposes mentioned in section 4(1)(a); and

       (e) take or cause to be taken any steps that are necessary to
            conserve the interests of the applicant pending the
            determination of the application.

 (2) Where the application is made by the guardian of a minor, a
reference to an applicant in subsection (1)(a), (b) and (c) is to be
construed as a reference to the guardian and the minor jointly or to
either of them severally.

Grant of Aid

 12.—(1) The Chief Public Defender may approve an application
for criminal defence aid, and issue a Grant of Aid to an applicant in
connection with any proceedings, if —

       (a) the Chief Public Defender is of the opinion that —

               (i) the applicant satisfies the prescribed means criteria;
                   or

              (ii) if the applicant is an unmarried minor, the minor and
                   the guardian who made the application on behalf of
                   the minor satisfy the prescribed means criteria;

       (b) the applicant is a citizen or permanent resident of
            Singapore who —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
14  NO. 23 OF 2022

           (i) is an accused person in any criminal proceedings
               mentioned in section 8(1)(a); or

          (ii) is or is to be an appellant, an applicant, a respondent
               or a party, in a criminal appeal or criminal
               application mentioned in section 8(1)(b);

    (c) either of the following applies:

           (i) in a case where the application for criminal defence
               aid is in respect of only one or more prescribed
               offences or offences in one or more prescribed
               classes of offences — the Chief Public Defender is of
               the opinion that there are merits to the application
               because —

                 (A) the applicant requires legal representation to
                      plead guilty;

                 (B) there are reasonable grounds for defending the
                      criminal proceedings mentioned in
                      section 8(1)(a); or

                 (C) there are merits to the criminal appeal or
                      criminal application mentioned in
                      section 8(1)(b), or reasonable grounds for
                      contesting the criminal appeal or criminal
                      application, as the case may be;

          (ii) in a case where the application for criminal defence
               aid is in respect of one or more offences that are not
               prescribed offences or not offences in one or more
               prescribed classes of offences — a board (consisting
               of the Chief Public Defender and at least 2 solicitors
               appointed to an appropriate panel of solicitors
               established under section 4) is, by the majority of
               its members, of the opinion that there are merits to
               the application because sub‑paragraph (i)(A), (B) or
               (C), whichever is applicable to the applicant’s case,
               is satisfied; and

                                                                        [Act 32 of 2024 wef 25/11/2024]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
PUBLIC DEFENDERS                                         15

       (d) the Chief Public Defender is of the opinion that it is
            appropriate in the circumstances for the Grant of Aid to be
            issued to the applicant.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(d), the Chief Public Defender
is to have regard to, and give any weight that the Chief Public
Defender considers appropriate to, any matter that he or she considers
relevant, including but not limited to the following:

       (a) whether the applicant is likely to lose his or her personal
            liberty or livelihood, or to suffer serious damage to his or
            her reputation, if any matter arising in the proceedings is
            decided against the applicant;

       (b) whether the determination of any matter arising in the
            proceedings may involve consideration of a substantial
            question of law;

       (c) whether the proceedings may involve the tracing,
            interviewing or cross‑examination of witnesses on behalf
            of the applicant;

       (d) whether any benefit may accrue to, or any detriment may
            be suffered by, the applicant or the public (or a section of
            the public) if criminal defence aid were to be granted to the
            applicant;

       (e) whether the issue of the Grant of Aid to the applicant is
            appropriate taking into account —

               (i) the allocation of resources available to the Public
                   Defender’s Office; and

              (ii) the availability of solicitors appointed to an
                   appropriate panel of solicitors established under
                   section 4.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2)(d), the benefit or detriment
concerned must not be determined by whether the interests of the
applicant are, or may be, adverse to the interests of —

       (a) the prosecution; or

       (b) any law enforcement agency (as defined in section 2(1) of
            the Criminal Procedure Code 2010) that investigated the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
16  NO. 23 OF 2022

            offence with which the applicant is charged or that charged
            the applicant with the offence.

 (4) Pending the determination of an application under
subsection (1), the Chief Public Defender may despite that
subsection approve an application for criminal defence aid, and
issue a Grant of Aid on a provisional basis to an applicant in
connection with any proceedings, if the Chief Public Defender is of
the opinion that —

       (a) the applicant requires criminal defence aid as a matter of
            urgency;

       (b) subsection (1)(b) applies; and

       (c) subsection (1)(a), (c) and (d) is likely to apply.

 (5) Despite subsection (1), where the requirements of
subsection (1)(a), (b), (c) and (d) are satisfied in relation to an
application, the Chief Public Defender may instead of approving the
application and issuing a Grant of Aid to the applicant under that
subsection, refer the application to any body or organisation
providing pro bono legal services that the Chief Public Defender
considers suitable.

 (6) A referral under subsection (5) in respect of an application does
not prevent the Chief Public Defender from subsequently approving
the application and issuing a Grant of Aid to the applicant under
subsection (1), if the Chief Public Defender considers it appropriate
in the circumstances.

 (7) Despite this section, the Minister may do either of the
following:

       (a) authorise the Chief Public Defender to issue a Grant of Aid
            to an individual in connection with any proceedings, if the
            Minister is of the opinion that it is in the interests of justice
            that criminal defence aid be granted to the individual in
            that connection;

       (b) direct the Chief Public Defender to approve an application
            for criminal defence aid, and issue a Grant of Aid under

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
PUBLIC DEFENDERS                                         17

            subsection (1) or (4) to an applicant, even though the Chief
            Public Defender is of the opinion that —

               (i) the applicant does not satisfy; or

              (ii) the applicant is not likely to satisfy,

       (b) the prescribed means criteria, if the Minister is of the
            opinion that it is just and proper that criminal defence aid
            be granted to the applicant.

 (8) Despite section 8(1), a Grant of Aid to be issued by the Chief
Public Defender under subsection (1), (4) or (7) to an applicant may
extend to any proceedings in respect of an excluded offence if —

       (a) the applicant faces charges for 2 or more offences (one or
            more of which is an excluded offence) in the criminal
            proceedings mentioned in subsection (1)(b)(i) before the
            court; or

       (b) the criminal appeal or criminal application for which the
            applicant is to be issued a Grant of Aid arises from the
            proceedings mentioned in paragraph (a).

 (9) For the purposes of subsection (7)(b), the Minister may
authorise any person (including a panel of persons), with such
qualifications and experience as the Minister considers appropriate in
relation to assessing the financial circumstances of an applicant, to
exercise the power under that provision.

 (10) An authorisation under subsection (9) —

       (a) may be subject to any conditions and restrictions that the
            Minister may specify in writing; and

       (b) does not prevent the Minister from exercising the power
            under subsection (7)(b).

 (11) Once an authorisation is made under subsection (9), the
Minister must —

       (a) cause a copy of the authorisation to be given to the
            authorised person; and

       (b) without delay cause to be published a notice of the making
            and giving of the authorisation in the Gazette.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
18  NO. 23 OF 2022

Chief Public Defender, public defender or assigned solicitor to
act for aided accused person, etc.

 13.—(1) Where a Grant of Aid is issued in connection with any
proceedings —

       (a) the Chief Public Defender or a public defender is to act for
            the aided accused person; or

       (b) the Chief Public Defender may assign a solicitor from an
            appropriate panel of solicitors established under section 4
            to act for the aided accused person.

 (2) Any reference to an advocate representing an accused person, or
an advocate representing an appellant, a respondent, an applicant or a
party (where the appellant, respondent, applicant or party is the
accused), or words of the same meaning however expressed, in —

       (a) the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 or any rules made under
            that Code; or

       (b) any other written law applicable to any proceedings to
            which a Grant of Aid relates,

is to be construed as including a reference to the Chief Public
Defender or a public defender acting for an aided accused person
under a Grant of Aid.

 (3) Before taking any other step in the proceedings, the Chief
Public Defender, the public defender or the assigned solicitor (as the
case may be) must notify the court before which the proceedings are
conducted of the Grant of Aid issued to the aided accused person.

 (4) In addition, the court before which the proceedings are
conducted must also be notified if —

       (a) a solicitor is subsequently assigned to act for the aided
            accused person after the court has been notified of the issue
            of a Grant of Aid; or

       (b) a different solicitor is assigned to act for the aided accused
            person in place of a solicitor previously assigned.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
PUBLIC DEFENDERS                                         19

Application for Grant of Aid by more than one accused person
in same proceedings, etc.

 14.—(1) This section applies if —

       (a) an applicant for criminal defence aid or an aided accused
            person is an accused person, an appellant, a respondent or a
            party in any proceedings; and

       (b) any other accused person, appellant, respondent or party in
            the same proceedings makes an application for criminal
            defence aid.

 (2) The Chief Public Defender or a public defender (as the case may
be) must not act for more than one accused person, appellant,
respondent or party in the same proceedings.

Variation of Grant of Aid

 15.—(1) The Chief Public Defender may vary a Grant of Aid in the
prescribed circumstances.

 (2) The Chief Public Defender must take any steps that the Chief
Public Defender considers reasonable or necessary to inform the
aided accused person of the variation of the Grant of Aid.

Cancellation of Grant of Aid

 16.—(1) The Chief Public Defender may cancel a Grant of Aid in
the prescribed circumstances.

 (2) Where a court has been notified of a Grant of Aid under
section 13 —

       (a) the Chief Public Defender, a public defender or the
            assigned solicitor (as the case may be) must notify the
            court of the cancellation of the Grant of Aid; and

       (b) the individual to whom the Grant of Aid was issued ceases
            to be an aided accused person on the date of the notification
            under paragraph (a).

 (3) The Chief Public Defender must take any steps that the Chief
Public Defender considers reasonable or necessary to inform the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
20  NO. 23 OF 2022

individual to whom a Grant of Aid was issued of the cancellation of
the Grant of Aid.

Contributions

 17.—(1) The Chief Public Defender may require an individual to
make one or more contributions —

       (a) in a lump sum or by instalments; and

       (b) by any time specified by the Chief Public Defender (which
            may be extended by the Chief Public Defender),

in respect of any matter for which an application for criminal defence
aid has been made by that individual.

 (2) Where an application mentioned in subsection (1) is made on
behalf of a minor by a guardian of the minor, a reference in this
section to an individual is to be construed as a reference to —

       (a) in the case where the minor is unmarried — both the
            guardian and the minor; and

       (b) in any other case — the minor only.

 (3) Where a court makes an order under the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010 for the payment of any costs or compensation in favour of
an aided accused person in relation to the proceedings for which
criminal defence aid has been granted, the Chief Public Defender may
require the aided accused person to make an additional contribution
in respect of those proceedings.

 (4) The Chief Public Defender may reduce any contribution, or
waive or refund the whole or any part of any contribution, that an
individual is required to pay under this section.

 (5) If an individual fails to pay the whole or any part of any
contribution when it becomes due and payable at the time specified
by the Chief Public Defender, and the Chief Public Defender certifies
that the expenses incurred in connection with the Grant of Aid have
exceeded the total amount of contributions required to be paid by the
individual, the amount of the unpaid contribution due and payable is
recoverable as a debt due to the Government.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
PUBLIC DEFENDERS                                         21

Criminal defence aid not to discontinue without permission

 18.—(1) An aided accused person must not discharge a solicitor
assigned to act for the aided accused person under this Act without
the permission of the Chief Public Defender.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), a solicitor assigned to act for an aided
accused person must not discontinue the provision of criminal
defence aid without the permission of the Chief Public Defender.

 (3) Subsection (2) does not apply to an assigned solicitor who
instructs another solicitor, who is also appointed to the appropriate
panel of solicitors established under section 4, to assist the assigned
solicitor.

Court may order payment of costs by aided accused person in
certain circumstances

 19.—(1) Where it appears to a court that any of the circumstances
mentioned in subsection (2) exists in relation to an aided accused
person, the court may order the aided accused person to pay the costs
of any of the following persons:

       (a) the Chief Public Defender and every public defender who
            acted for the aided accused person;

       (b) an assigned solicitor who acted for the aided accused
            person.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the circumstances are as
follows:

       (a) the Grant of Aid issued to the aided accused person has
            been obtained by fraud or misrepresentation;

       (b) the aided accused person acted improperly in defending or
            contesting any proceedings, or in the conduct of those
            proceedings.

 (3) Where an order is made under subsection (1), the costs are to be
assessed as if the party ordered to pay the costs were not an aided
accused person.

                                                                                [Act 32 of 2024 wef 25/11/2024]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
22  NO. 23 OF 2022

 (4) In subsection (1), “aided accused person” includes, in any case
where the Grant of Aid has been cancelled before the making of the
order, the individual who immediately before the cancellation was an
aided accused person.

Application by aided accused person for criminal defence aid
for criminal appeal, etc.

 20.—(1) Where —

       (a) any criminal proceedings mentioned in section 12(1)(b)(i)
            for which a Grant of Aid was issued have concluded in any
            court; and

       (b) the aided accused person is or is to be an appellant, an
            applicant, a respondent or a party, in a criminal appeal or
            criminal application arising from those criminal
            proceedings,

the aided accused person must make a fresh application to the Chief
Public Defender, within the prescribed time, for criminal defence aid
in connection with the criminal appeal or criminal application
mentioned in paragraph (b).

 (2) Section 12 applies to the fresh application for criminal defence
aid under subsection (1) with the necessary modifications.

 (3) Despite subsection (1), the Chief Public Defender may consider
a fresh application for criminal defence aid that is made after the
prescribed time mentioned in that subsection, if —

       (a) the aided accused person had filed the notice of appeal or
            the criminal application before making the fresh
            application; or

       (b) the Chief Public Defender is of the opinion that there are
            extenuating circumstances for not making the fresh
            application by that prescribed time.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
PUBLIC DEFENDERS                                         23

Costs awarded against Chief Public Defender or public
defender

 21.—(1) Any costs awarded against the Chief Public Defender or a
public defender under the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 are to be
paid out of the Consolidated Fund.

 (2) The Chief Public Defender or a public defender is not
personally liable for any costs awarded against him or her.

                                    PART 4

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Privileges and rights attaching to certain relationships

 22.—(1) The same privileges and rights that arise from the
relationship of solicitor and client, when a solicitor acts in the
solicitor’s professional capacity and in the course of the solicitor’s
professional employment, arise from the following relationships:

       (a) in relation to an application for criminal defence aid —

               (i) the relationship between the applicant for criminal
                   defence aid, and the Chief Public Defender and every
                   public defender to whom the application is referred;
                   or

              (ii) the relationship between the applicant for criminal
                   defence aid and an assigned solicitor to whom the
                   Chief Public Defender refers the application;

       (b) in relation to a Grant of Aid —

               (i) the relationship between an aided accused person,
                   and the Chief Public Defender and every public
                   defender who acts for the aided accused person in
                   any proceedings to which the Grant of Aid relates; or

              (ii) the relationship between an aided accused person
                   and an assigned solicitor who acts for the aided
                   accused person in any proceedings to which the
                   Grant of Aid relates.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
24  NO. 23 OF 2022

 (2) To avoid doubt, the same privileges and rights mentioned in
subsection (1) and the relationship of solicitor and client do not arise
between the Chief Public Defender, and the applicant or aided
accused person mentioned in subsection (1)(a)(ii) or (b)(ii) (as the
case may be), by reason only of the Chief Public Defender —

       (a) referring the applicant’s application to a solicitor, or
            assigning a solicitor to act for the aided accused person; or

       (b) performing any of the Chief Public Defender’s functions
            imposed by or under this Act in respect of any other matter
            arising from the referral or assignment mentioned in
            paragraph (a).

 (3) To avoid doubt, the same privileges and rights mentioned in
subsection (1) and the relationship of solicitor and client do not arise
between the Chief Public Defender, and an individual whose
application is referred by the Chief Public Defender under
section 12(5) to a body or organisation providing pro bono legal
services, by reason only of the Chief Public Defender referring the
individual’s application to that body or organisation.

 (4) Despite subsection (1), the privileges mentioned in that
subsection do not arise in relation to any information given to the
Chief Public Defender concerning the means and other circumstances
of the applicant in connection with an application for criminal
defence aid.

 (5) To avoid doubt, except where provided by subsection (4) or
section 4(5), the Chief Public Defender must ensure that nothing is
done by the Chief Public Defender which interferes with the
privileges and rights which arise from the relationship of solicitor
and client mentioned in subsection (1)(a)(ii) or (b)(ii).

 (6) Except where otherwise provided by or under this Act, the
rights conferred by this Act on an individual receiving criminal
defence aid are not to affect the rights or liabilities of other parties to
the proceedings or the principles on which the discretion of a court is
normally exercised.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
PUBLIC DEFENDERS                                         25

False or misleading statement, etc.

 23. If an individual who applies for or receives criminal defence
aid —

       (a) knowingly makes any false or misleading statement or
            representation in the application for criminal defence aid;

       (b) fails to make full and frank disclosure of the individual’s
            means; or

       (c) fails to inform the Chief Public Defender of any change to
            the means or other circumstances of the individual which
            may render him or her ineligible for criminal defence aid,

the individual shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Rules regulating procedure and practice of court

 24. Where it is necessary or expedient to do so for carrying out or
giving effect to this Act —

       (a) the Criminal Procedure Rules Committee constituted
            under section 428A of the Criminal Procedure
            Code 2010 may make rules under section 428A(3) of
            that Code; or

       (b) the Minister may make rules under section 428A(15) of the
            Criminal Procedure Code 2010,

regulating and prescribing the procedure and the practice to be
followed in a court in proceedings against an aided accused person,
and any matters incidental to or relating to that procedure or practice.

Regulations

 25.—(1) The Minister may make regulations necessary or
expedient for carrying out or giving effect to this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the regulations may —

       (a) regulate all matters relating to fees for solicitors, charges
            and costs in connection with any work mentioned in
            section 4(1)(a) or (b) (including costs to be incurred or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
26  NO. 23 OF 2022

           incurred by an assigned solicitor for any matter that the
           assigned solicitor considers necessary for any work
           mentioned in section 4(1)(a) or (b));

      (b) prescribe fees for applications for a Grant of Aid, and
           provide that the Chief Public Defender may reduce any fee,
           or waive or refund the whole or any part of any fee;

      (c) make provision for the circumstances in which a Grant of
           Aid may be varied or cancelled;

      (d) make provision for the recovery of contributions that are
           due and payable;

      (e) make any provision necessary to meet the circumstances
           where —

             (i) an individual is issued a Grant of Aid on a
                  provisional basis;

            (ii) an individual receives criminal defence aid in respect
                  of any proceedings after having consulted a solicitor
                  in the ordinary way with respect to those
                  proceedings, or ceases to receive criminal defence
                  aid in respect of any proceedings before those
                  proceedings have concluded; or

            (iii) there is any change of circumstances while an
                  individual is receiving criminal defence aid;

      (f) make provision for the period when a Grant of Aid issued
           on a provisional basis is in force, and for matters relating to
           the lapse or extension of the Grant of Aid; and

      (g) prescribe all matters required or permitted to be prescribed
           under or for the purposes of this Act.

(3) The regulations made under this section may apply —

      (a) generally to all legal matters (whether relating to
           proceedings in a court or otherwise);

      (b) to any specified class of matters or proceedings; or

      (c) to all matters or proceedings other than matters or
           proceedings of a specified class.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
PUBLIC DEFENDERS                                         27

 (4) The regulations made under this section may provide that any
contravention of any provision of the regulations shall be an offence
punishable with a fine not exceeding $2,000.

 (5) The powers conferred by this section do not extend to any
matter for which rules under the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 may
be made under section 24.

 (6) All regulations made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Related amendment to Evidence Act 1893

 26. Section 3 of the Evidence Act 1893 is amended by deleting
subsection (6) and substituting the following subsection:

       “(6) For the purposes of sections 23, 128, 130 and 131, a
      reference to “advocate or solicitor” in those sections includes a
      reference to the following:

             (a) any public officer in the Attorney‑General’s
                  Chambers when he or she acts as an advocate or a
                  solicitor;

             (b) the Chief Public Defender, a Deputy Chief Public
                  Defender, an Assistant Chief Public Defender or a
                  public defender appointed under section 3 of the
                  Public Defenders Act 2022, when he or she acts as an
                  advocate or a solicitor.”.

Related amendments to Legal Profession Act 1966

 27.—(1) Section 29(2) of the Legal Profession Act 1966 is
amended —

       (a) by deleting the word “and” at the end of paragraph (e); and

       (b) by deleting the full‑stop at the end of paragraph (f) and
            substituting a semi‑colon, and by inserting immediately
            thereafter the following paragraphs:

                        “(g) the Chief Public Defender, a Deputy Chief
                               Public Defender or an Assistant Chief
                               Public Defender to appear and plead in

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
28  NO. 23 OF 2022

                               those courts under the provisions of the
                               Public Defenders Act 2022; and

                          (h) a public defender mentioned in
                               section 3(8)(b) of the Public Defenders
                               Act 2022 to appear and plead in those
                               courts under the provisions of that Act.”.

 (2) Section 34(1) of the Legal Profession Act 1966 is amended by
inserting, immediately after paragraph (ca), the following
paragraphs:

          “(cb) the Chief Public Defender, a Deputy Chief Public
                  Defender or an Assistant Chief Public Defender
                  acting in the course of the functions of the Chief
                  Public Defender, Deputy Chief Public Defender or
                  Assistant Chief Public Defender (as the case may be)
                  under the provisions of the Public Defenders
                  Act 2022;

            (cc) a public defender appointed under section 3(6) of the
                  Public Defenders Act 2022 acting in the course of that
                  public defender’s functions under that Act;”.

 (3) Section 82 of the Legal Profession Act 1966 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the full‑stop at the end of paragraph (c) of
            subsection (1) and substituting a semi‑colon, and by
            inserting immediately thereafter the following paragraph:

                        “(d) a PD Officer.”;

       (b) by inserting, immediately after subsection (2), the
            following subsection:

                    “(3) In this Part, “PD Officer” means —

                          (a) the Chief Public Defender, a Deputy Chief
                               Public Defender or an Assistant Chief
                               Public Defender appointed under
                               section 3 of the Public Defenders
                               Act 2022; or

                          (b) a public defender appointed under
                               section 3(6) of the Public Defenders

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
PUBLIC DEFENDERS                                         29

                               Act 2022 who is a public officer and a
                               qualified person.”; and

       (c) by deleting the words “and Legal Service Officers” in the
            section heading and substituting the words “, Legal Service
            Officers and PD Officers”.

 (4) Section 82A of the Legal Profession Act 1966 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “or Legal Service Officer” in
            subsection (1) and substituting the words “, Legal Service
            Officer or PD Officer”;

       (b) by inserting, immediately after the words “Legal Service
            Officers” in subsection (2), the words “, PD Officers”;

       (c) by inserting, immediately after the words “a Legal Service
            Officer” wherever they appear in subsection (3), the words
            “, a PD Officer”;

       (d) by inserting, immediately after the words “, Legal Service
            Officer” wherever they appear in subsections (4), (5), (6A),
            (8), (9), (10) and (12)(a), the words “, PD Officer”;

       (e) by deleting the words “or a Legal Service Officer” in
            subsection (10) and substituting the words “, a Legal
            Service Officer or a PD Officer”; and

        (f) by deleting the words “and non‑practising solicitors” in the
            section heading and substituting the words “, PD Officers
            and non‑practising solicitors”.

 (5) Section 94A(3) of the Legal Profession Act 1966 is amended by
deleting the words “or Legal Service Officer” and substituting the
words “, Legal Service Officer or PD Officer”.

 (6) Section 98A(1) of the Legal Profession Act 1966 is amended by
inserting, immediately after the words “, Legal Service Officer”
wherever they appear, the words “, PD Officer”.

Related amendments to Singapore Academy of Law Act 1988

 28.—(1) Section 2 of the Singapore Academy of Law Act 1988 is
amended by inserting, immediately after the definition of “member”,
the following definition:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
30  NO. 23 OF 2022

      “ “PD Officer” means —

                    (a) the Chief Public Defender, a Deputy Chief
                         Public Defender or an Assistant Chief Public
                         Defender appointed under section 3 of the
                         Public Defenders Act 2022; or

                    (b) a public defender appointed under section 3(6)
                         of the Public Defenders Act 2022 who is a
                         public officer and a qualified person;”.

 (2) Section 14 of the Singapore Academy of Law Act 1988 is
amended by deleting the words “or Legal Service Officer” in
paragraph (b) and substituting the words “, Legal Service Officer or
PD Officer”.

 (3) Section 16(1) of the Singapore Academy of Law Act 1988 is
amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “or a Legal Service Officer” in
            paragraph (b) and substituting the words “, a Legal Service
            Officer or a PD Officer”; and

       (b) by deleting the words “or the Singapore Legal Service” in
            paragraph (b) and substituting the words “, the Singapore
            Legal Service or the Public Defender’s Office”.

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                               Section 8(2) and (3)

                             EXCLUDED OFFENCES AND
                       EXCLUDED CLASSES OF OFFENCES

                                           PART 1
                                          GENERAL
Capital offences
 1. An offence is an excluded offence if it is punishable by death.

Part 2 offences
 2. An offence under any Act mentioned in Part 2 of this Schedule, or under any
subsidiary legislation made under any of those Acts, is an excluded offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
PUBLIC DEFENDERS                                                        31

                             THE SCHEDULE — continued

Part 3 offences prosecuted in certain ways

 3. An offence is an excluded offence if —

        (a) it is an offence under an Act mentioned in Part 3 of this Schedule or
             under any subsidiary legislation made under any of those Acts; and

        (b) the accused person is served a notice to attend court or a summons for
             the offence.

Offences prosecuted by statutory bodies, etc.

 4.—(1) An offence is an excluded offence if the accused person is served a
notice to attend court or a summons for the offence by an officer of a statutory
body.

 (2) In this paragraph, “statutory body” has the meaning given by paragraph (b)
of the definition of “public body” in section 2(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code
2010.

Offences prosecuted by private persons

 5. An offence is an excluded offence if it is prosecuted or to be prosecuted by a
private person under section 11(10) of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

                                          PART 2
                                  PART 2 OFFENCES
 1. Betting Act 1960 (as in force before 1 August 2022)
 2. Casino Control Act 2006
 3. Common Gaming Houses Act 1961 (as in force before 1 August 2022)
 4. Gambling Control Act 2022
 5. Massage Establishments Act 2017
 6. Organised Crime Act 2015
 7. Remote Gambling Act 2014 (as in force before 1 August 2022)
 8. Terrorism (Suppression of Bombings) Act 2007
 9. Terrorism (Suppression of Financing) Act 2002
10. Terrorism (Suppression of Misuse of Radioactive Material) Act 2017

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
32  NO. 23 OF 2022

                            THE SCHEDULE — continued
                                          PART 3

                                  PART 3 OFFENCES
 1. Advance Medical Directive Act 1996
 2. Bankruptcy Act (Cap. 20, 2009 Revised Edition) (as in force before 30 July

     2020)
 3. Child Development Co-Savings Act 2001
 4. Customs Act 1960
 5. Employment Act 1968
 6. Employment Agencies Act 1958
 7. Employment Claims Act 2016
 8. Employment of Foreign Manpower Act 1990
 9. Enlistment Act 1970
10. Fire Safety Act 1993
11. Foreign Employee Dormitories Act 2015
12. Goods and Services Tax Act 1993
13. Health Products Act 2007
14. Health Promotion Board Act 2001
15. Health Sciences Authority Act 2001
16. Immigration Act 1959
17. Infectious Diseases Act 1976
18. Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
19. Medical and Elderly Care Endowment Schemes Act 2000
20. Medicines (Advertisement and Sale) Act 1955
21. Medicines Act 1975
22. Moneylenders Act 2008
23. National Registration Act 1965
24. Passports Act 2007
25. Pawnbrokers Act 2015
26. Personal Data Protection Act 2012
27. Poisons Act 1938

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
PUBLIC DEFENDERS                                             33

THE SCHEDULE — continued

28. Registration of Births and Deaths Act 2021

29. Regulation of Imports and Exports Act 1995

30. Retirement and Re-employment Act 1993

31. Road Traffic Act 1961

32. Sale of Drugs Act 1914 (as in force before 1 June 2024)

33. Singapore Armed Forces Act 1972

34. Termination of Pregnancy Act 1974

35. Tobacco and Vaporisers Control Act 1993 (formerly Tobacco (Control of
     Advertisements and Sale) Act 1993)

                                                                                  [S 247/2026 wef 01/05/2026]

36. Town Councils Act 1988

37. Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioners Act 2000

38. Work Injury Compensation Act 2019

39. Workplace Safety and Health Act 2006

                                                [Act 32 of 2024 wef 25/11/2024]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
