THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
             MERCHANT SHIPPING ACT 1995

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                                                                  2020 Ed.

         Merchant Shipping Act 1995

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Exemption of naval ships, etc.
     2.  Appointment of Director of Marine, etc.
     3.  Appointment of surveyors
     4.  Delegation of powers by Authority
     5.
     6.

                                        PART 2

                             SINGAPORE REGISTRY

 7. Application of this Part
 8. Conditions for registration of ships
 9. Register of Singapore ships
10. Marking of ship
11. Application for initial registry
12. Provisional registry
13. Entry of particulars in register
14. Fees and tonnage taxes on registration
15. Documents to be retained by Registrar
16. Certificate of registry
17. Use, custody and delivery up of certificate
18. Transfer of ship and registration of bill of sale
19. Transfer to person qualified to own Singapore ship
20. Transfer to person not qualified to own Singapore ship
21. Transmission of property in ship on marriage, bankruptcy, death,

         etc.
22. Order for sale on transmission to unqualified person
23. Transfer of ship or sale by order of court
24. Power of General Division of High Court to prohibit transfer
25. Mortgage of ship or share

         1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                                      2

Section   Obligation of mortgagor before execution and registration of
   26.    mortgage
          Entry of discharge of mortgage
   27.    Priority of mortgages
   28.    Mortgagee not deemed to be owner
   29.    Powers of mortgagee
   30.    Transfer of mortgages
   31.    Transmission of interest in mortgage in certain circumstances
   32.    Notice of trusts not received and equities not excluded
   33.    Alteration of ship
   34.    Procedure for registry anew
   35.    National colours for Singapore ships
   36.    Penalty for not showing colours
   37.    Certified copy or transcript of register
   38.    Correction of errors in register
   39.    Rectification of register by General Division of High Court
   40.    Delivery up of certificate on loss, etc., of ship
   41.    Voluntary closure of registry
   42.    Power of Authority to close registry and cancel certificate of
   43.    registry
          Rules as to name of ship
   44.    Regulations on evidence of seaworthiness, etc.
   45.

                                        PART 3

                      MANNING AND CERTIFICATION

46. Application of this Part
47. Manning and certification
48. Prohibition of going to sea undermanned
49. Unqualified persons going to sea as qualified officers
50. Production of certificates and other documents of qualification
51. Certificate obtained by fraud

                                        PART 4

                                 CREW MATTERS

52. Application of this Part and interpretation
53. Crew agreements
54. Regulations relating to crew agreements, engagement and

         discharge of seamen

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
3        Merchant Shipping Act 1995                                    2020 Ed.

Section  Discharge of seamen when ship ceases to be registered in
   55.   Singapore
         Payment of seaman’s wages
   56.   Account of seaman’s wages
   57.   Regulations relating to wages and accounts
   58.   Settlement of disputes
   59.   Restriction on attachment or assignment of and charge upon
   60.   crew member’s wages
         Assignment or sale of salvage invalid
   61.   Allotment notes
   62.   Right of person named in allotment note to sue in own name
   63.   Right, or loss of right, to wages in certain circumstances
   64.   Compensation to crew member improperly discharged
   65.   Wages on termination of service by illness
   66.   Protection of certain rights and remedies
   67.   Remedies of master for remuneration, disbursements, etc.
   68.   Powers of court in case of unreasonable delay in paying crew
   69.   member’s wages
         Provisions and water
   70.   Complaints about provisions or water
   71.   Other complaints
   72.   Medical stores
   73.   Medical treatment on board ship
   74.   Expenses of medical treatment, etc., during voyage
   75.   Drunkenness, etc., on board ship
   76.   Continued or concerted disobedience, neglect of duty, etc.
   77.   Offences committed by certain other persons
   78.   Defence of drug or psychoactive substance taken for medical
   79.   purposes
         Disciplinary offences
   80.   Appeal against fine for disciplinary offences
   81.   Prohibition of double prosecution
   82.   Payment of fines for disciplinary offences
   83.   Civil liability for smuggling
   84.   Relief and repatriation of seaman left behind
   85.   Limit of employer’s liability under section 85
   86.   Custody, etc., of property of deceased crew members
   87.   Disposal of property of deceased crew members
   88.   Official and other logbooks
   89.   Discharge books
   90.

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                                     4

Section   Returns of births and deaths in ships, etc.
          Handing over of documents on change of master
   91.    Stowaways
   92.    Master’s power of arrest
   93.    Penalty for receiving remuneration from seamen for engagement
   94.    Restriction on employment of young persons on board ship
   95.    Extension to foreign ships
   96.
   97.

                                          PART 5

                               SURVEY AND SAFETY

 98. Application of this Part
 99. Prohibition on going to sea without certificates
100. Powers of Authority to make regulations
101. Overloaded ships
102. Penalty for carrying passengers in excess
103. Observance of collision regulations
104. Defect or deficiency in ship, etc.
105. Cancellation of certificate or exemption certificate
106. Duty of ship to assist the other in case of collision
107. Report of accidents, etc., to Director
108. Appointment of inspector to report on accident, etc.
109. Notification of loss of ship
110. Owner and master liable in respect of unsafe ship
111. Crew member may claim discharge if ship is unsafe
112. Obligation of shipowner to crew with respect to use of

          reasonable efforts to secure seaworthiness
113. Detention of unsafe ship
114. Owner liable for unsafe operation of ship
115. Conduct endangering ships, structures or individuals
116. Regulations for survey of ships and issue of certificates

                                          PART 6

                      INQUIRIES AND INVESTIGATIONS

117. Inquiry into fitness or conduct of officers
118. Inquiries and investigations into shipping casualties
119. Formal investigations into shipping casualties
120. Re-hearing of and appeal from inquiries and investigations
121. Regulations as to inquiries, formal investigations and appeals

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
5         Merchant Shipping Act 1995                                  2020 Ed.

Section   Failure to deliver cancelled or suspended certificate
          Power to restore certificate
  122.    Payment to persons holding inquiries or investigations and
  123.    assessors
  124.

                                             PART 7

                                  DELIVERY OF GOODS

   125. Interpretation of this Part
   126. Powers of shipowner to land goods
   127. Lien for freight on landing goods
   128. Discharge of lien
   129. Provisions as to deposits by owners of goods
   130. Sale of goods by wharfinger and warehouseman
   131. Application of proceeds of sale
   132. Wharfinger’s and warehouseman’s rent and expenses
   133. Wharfinger’s and warehouseman’s protection

                                             PART 8

                   LIABILITY OF SHIPOWNERS AND SALVORS
                                FOR MARITIME CLAIMS

   134. Interpretation of this Part
   135. Exclusion of liability
   136. Limitation of liability for maritime claims
   137. General limits
   138. Limit for passenger claims
   139. Constitution and distribution of fund
   140. Bar to other actions
   141. Meaning of “State Party”
   142. Units of Account
   143. Amendment of First Schedule
   144. Saving

          PART 9

          WRECK AND SALVAGE

   145.   Interpretation of this Part
   145A.  Salvage Convention to have force of law
   146.   Receiver of wrecks
   147.   Duty of receiver in respect of ship in distress

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                                   6

Section   Powers of receiver in case of ships in distress
          Power to pass over adjoining lands
  148.    Power of receiver to suppress plunder and disorder by force
  149.    Exercise of powers of receiver in his or her absence
  150.    Examination in respect of ships in distress
  151.    Rules to be observed by persons finding wreck
  152.    Penalty for taking wreck at time of casualty
  153.    Notice of wreck to be given by receiver
  154.    Claims of owners to wreck
  155.    Immediate sale of wreck by receiver in certain cases
  156.    Right of Government to unclaimed wreck
  157.    Unclaimed wreck
  158.    Delivery of unclaimed wreck by receiver not to affect title
  159.    Removal of wreck by receiver
  160.    Powers of removal extend to tackle, cargo, etc.
  161.    Taking wreck to foreign port
  162.    Interfering with wrecked ship or wreck
  163.    Summary procedure for concealment of wreck
  164.    Recourse for life salvage payment
  165.    Salvage of cargo or wreck
  166.    Determination of salvage disputes
  167.    Determination of disputes as to salvage summarily
  168.    Appeal in case of salvage disputes
  169.    Valuation of property by receiver
  170.    Detention of property liable to salvage by receiver
  171.    Sale of detained property
  172.    Apportionment of salvage by receiver
  173.    Appointment of salvage by General Division of High Court
  174.    [Repealed]
  175.    Receiver’s fees
  176.
  177.

                                         PART 10

                               LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

178. Provision as to jurisdiction in case of offences
179. Jurisdiction over ships lying off coast
180. Jurisdiction in case of offences on board ship
181. Presumption of jurisdiction
182. Court for trial of offences
183. Sums ordered to be paid leviable by distress on ship

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
7        Merchant Shipping Act 1995                                  2020 Ed.

Section  Depositions to be received in evidence when witness cannot be
  184.   produced
         Proof of attestation not required
  185.   Admissibility of documents in evidence
  186.   Service of documents
  187.   Mode of making declarations
  188.   Continuing offences
  189.   Liability of beneficial owners
  190.   Offences by body corporate
  191.   Offences under this Act
  192.   Forgery, etc., of documents and fraudulent use
  193.   False declaration, etc.
  194.   Interfering with person in carrying out duty, etc.
  195.   Misleading officer, refusal to answer questions, produce
  196.   documents, etc.
         Offences relating to markings of ship
  197.   Unauthorised presence on board ship
  198.   Taking person performing duty to sea
  199.   General penalties
  200.   Persons appointed or authorised under this Act deemed public
  201.   servants
         Costs of detention of unsafe ships
  202.   Security for costs of detention of unsafe ships
  203.   Immunity of Government, Authority and their employees, etc.
  204.

                                            PART 11

                                     MISCELLANEOUS

   205. Powers of Director, etc.
   206. Powers of inspector
   207. Power of arrest
   208. Power of General Division of High Court to remove master
   209. Enforcing detention of ship
   210. Issue of new document
   211. Issue of certified copies or extracts
   212. Copy of Act and regulations to be kept on Singapore ships
   213. Powers of Authority to prescribe fees, recovery of fees and

             application of moneys
   214. Documents to be in approved form
   215. Exemption

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               8

Section   Regulations
  216.    Transitional provisions
  217.    First Schedule — Convention on Limitation of Liability

                                    for Maritime Claims, 1976
          Second Schedule — International Convention on Salvage,

                                    1989

An Act relating to merchant shipping.

                                       [2 February 1996]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Merchant Shipping Act 1995.

Interpretation
 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “alteration” includes deterioration;
      “Authority” means the Maritime and Port Authority of
         Singapore established under the Maritime and Port
         Authority of Singapore Act 1996;
      “beneficial interest” includes interests arising under contract and
         other equitable interests;
      “cargo ship” means any ship which is not a passenger ship;
      “certificated officer” means any officer holding a certificate
         issued or deemed to have been issued in accordance with
         regulations made under section 47;
      “collision regulations” means regulations made under
         section 100(2)(h);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
9  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

   “consular officer” includes —

   (a) a consul, ambassador, high commissioner,
        commissioner or other head of a diplomatic mission;

   (b) a Minister;

   (c) a charge d’affairs; and

   (d) a counsellor, secretary or attache of an embassy or
        other mission;

   “court”, in relation to any proceedings, includes any court
      having jurisdiction in the matter to which the proceedings
      relate;

   “crew” means the following:

   (a) if the ship is a ship to which the Merchant Shipping
        (Maritime Labour Convention) Act 2014 applies, all
        the seafarers employed on board that ship;

   (b) if the ship is not a ship mentioned in paragraph (a),
        the master and all the seamen employed on board that
        ship;

   “crew agreement” means an agreement made pursuant to
      section 53;

   “crew member” means a member of the crew;

   “Director” means the Director of Marine appointed under
      section 4 and includes a Deputy Director of Marine;

                                                                          [Act 17 of 2025 wef 01/02/2026]

   “effects” includes clothes and documents;

   “equipment”, in relation to a ship, includes every fitting, thing or
      article belonging to, on or in the ship used or to be used in
      connection with, or necessary for the navigation or safety of,
      the ship or persons on board or the prevention of pollution,
      whether or not the fitting, thing or article is prescribed by this
      Act and, in particular, includes machinery, boilers, cargo
      handling gear and any fitting, thing or article prescribed by
      this Act;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               10

“harbour craft” means any ship that is used solely within the
   limits of the port that may be declared under the Maritime and
   Port Authority of Singapore Act 1996;

“load line” means a line indicating the maximum depth to which
   a ship, other than a passenger ship, may be loaded in
   circumstances prescribed by regulations made under
   section 100 and determined in accordance with those
   regulations;

“master” includes every person, except a pilot, having command
   or charge of any ship;

“name” includes a surname;

“natural resources” means the mineral and other non-living
   resources of the seabed and its subsoil;

“officer” includes a master, a mate, an engineer, a helmsman and
   an engine driver of any ship;

“off-shore industry mobile unit” means —

          (a) a vessel that is used or intended for use in exploring
               or exploiting the natural resources of the subsoil of
               any seabed, or in any operation or activity associated
               with or incidental thereto, by drilling the seabed or its
               subsoil, or by obtaining substantial quantities of
               material from the seabed or its subsoil, with
               equipment that is on or forms part of the vessel; and

          (b) a barge or like vessel fitted with living quarters for
               more than 12 persons and used or intended for use in
               connection with the construction, maintenance or
               repair of any fixed structure used or intended for use
               in exploring or exploiting the natural resources of the
               subsoil of any seabed, or in any operation or activity
               associated with or incidental thereto;

“passenger” means a person carried on board a ship with the
   knowledge or consent of the owner, manager, charterer,
   operator, agent or master of the ship, not being —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
11  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

    (a) a person employed or engaged in any capacity on
         board the ship on the business of the ship;

    (b) a person on board the ship pursuant to an obligation
         imposed on the master by any law (including a law of
         a country other than Singapore) to convey persons
         left behind in any country on being shipwrecked,
         distressed or by reason of circumstances that could
         not have been prevented or forestalled by the owner,
         manager, charterer, operator, agent or master of the
         ship;

    (c) a person temporarily employed on the ship in port; or

    (d) a child below one year of age;

    “passenger ship” means a ship which carries more than
       12 passengers;

    “pilot” means any person who does not belong to, but has the
       conduct of, a ship;

    “port” includes place;

    “Port Health Officer” means any person appointed as a Port
       Health Officer under the Infectious Diseases Act 1976;

    “Port Master” means the Port Master appointed under the
       Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore Act 1996 and
       includes any Deputy Port Master;

    “port of return” means such port as is agreed upon by the crew
       member and his or her employer in the crew agreement or
       seafarer’s employment agreement (as the case may be) or
       otherwise, or, in the absence of agreement —

    (a) Singapore, in the case of a crew member who is
         resident in Singapore; or

    (b) the port where the crew member was employed or
         joined the ship, in any other case;

    “psychoactive substance” means —

    (a) a psychoactive substance within the meaning given
         by section 2 of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               12

        (b) a specified psychoactive substance within the
             meaning given by section 2(1) of the Tobacco and
             Vaporisers Control Act 1993;

                                                                        [Act 9 of 2026 wef 01/05/2026]

“Registrar” means the Registrar of Singapore ships;

“representation” means probate, administration, confirmation or
   other instrument constituting a person the executor,
   administrator or other representative of a deceased person,
   and “legal personal representative” means the person so
   constituted executor, administrator or other representative of
   a deceased person;

“salvor”, in relation to salvage services rendered by the officers
   or crew or part of the crew of any naval ship, means the
   person in command of that ship;

“sea” includes any waters within the ebb and flow of tide;

“seafarer” has the meaning given by the Merchant Shipping
   (Maritime Labour Convention) Act 2014;

“seafarer’s employment agreement” has the meaning given by
   the Merchant Shipping (Maritime Labour Convention)
   Act 2014;

“seaman” includes every person employed or engaged in any
   capacity on board a ship on the business of the ship, other
   than —

          (a) the master of the ship;

          (b) a pilot; or

          (c) a person temporarily employed on the ship in port;

“ship” means any kind of vessel used in navigation by water,
   however propelled or moved and includes —

          (a) a barge, lighter or other floating vessel;

          (b) an air-cushion vehicle, or other similar craft, used
               wholly or primarily in navigation by water; and

          (c) an off-shore industry mobile unit;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
13  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

    “Singapore ship” means a ship registered, provisionally or
       otherwise, under Part 2 and its registry is not closed or
       deemed to be closed or suspended under that Part;

    “subdivision load line” means a line indicating the maximum
       depth to which a passenger ship may be loaded having regard
       to the extent to which it is subdivided and to the space for the
       time being allotted to passengers as determined in accordance
       with regulations made under section 100;

    “voyage”, in relation to a ship, means the whole time and the
       whole distance when the ship is at sea between the ship’s port
       of departure and its port of arrival;

    “wages” includes emoluments;

    “young person” means any person who has not attained 18 years
       of age.

                                    [56/2004; 6/2014]

(2) References in this Act —

    (a) to a failure to do any act or thing include references to a
         refusal or neglect to do that act or thing;

    (b) to going to sea include, in the case of a Singapore ship,
         references to going to sea from any country outside
         Singapore;

    (c) to dying in a ship include references to dying in a ship’s
        boat or life raft and to being lost from a ship, ship’s boat or
        life raft; and

    (d) to this Act include references to regulations made under
         this Act.

(3) For the purposes of this Act —

    (a) a crew member is discharged from a ship when his or her
         employment on that ship is terminated;

    (b) a crew member discharged from a ship in any country and
         left there is deemed to be left behind in that country even
         though the ship also remains there; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               14

          (c) a ship is deemed to have gone to sea if it has got under way
              for any purpose except for the purpose of moving the ship
              from one berth or place in a port to another berth or place in
              the port.

                                                                                                            [6/2014]

Exemption of naval ships, etc.

 3. This Act, with the exception of Part 8 or where the contrary
intention appears, does not apply to or in relation to any ship
belonging to the naval, military or air forces of Singapore or any other
country.

Appointment of Director of Marine, etc.

 4.—(1) The Authority may appoint a Director of Marine and one or
more Deputy Directors of Marine.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2025 wef 01/02/2026]

 (2) If the Director is temporarily absent from Singapore or
temporarily incapacitated by reason of illness or for any reason
temporarily unable to perform his or her duties, a person may be
appointed by the Authority to act in the place of the Director during
any such period of absence from duty.

 (3) The Director may appoint such number of officers as the
Director thinks fit for the purpose of carrying out all or any of the
functions conferred on the Director by this Act.

 (4) The Director may delegate to any officer appointed under this
section all or any of the powers conferred on the Director by this Act,
except the powers conferred by section 113.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2025 wef 01/02/2026]

Appointment of surveyors

 5.—(1) The Director may appoint, either generally or for special
purposes or on special occasions, any person to be a surveyor of ships
or a radio surveyor for the purposes of this Act.

 (2) Every surveyor of ships and every radio surveyor is to have and
perform the powers, functions and duties prescribed by this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
15  Merchant Shipping Act 1995     2020 Ed.

Delegation of powers by Authority

 6. The Authority may delegate to any of its officers all or any of the
functions and powers conferred on the Authority by this Act.

                                    PART 2
                         SINGAPORE REGISTRY
Application of this Part
 7. This Part does not apply to any fishing vessel, that is to say, any
ship which is for the time being used for fishing or processing fish.

Conditions for registration of ships
 8.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make

regulations prescribing the conditions for the registration of a ship as
a Singapore ship.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), regulations made under this
section may make provision —

       (a) describing the persons qualified to own Singapore ships or
            any share therein (called in this Part persons qualified to
            own Singapore ships);

       (b) requiring a corporation having a share capital to have a
            minimum amount of paid-up capital;

       (c) limiting the age and tonnage of a ship;
       (d) requiring a corporate owner to disclose to the Registrar

            such particulars and in such manner as may be specified
            before making an application to register a ship; and
       (e) empowering the Registrar to close the registry of a
            Singapore ship and cancel its certificate of registry for
            any contravention of the regulations.
 (3) The Registrar may refuse to register any ship as a Singapore
ship without assigning any reason.

Register of Singapore ships
 9.—(1) The Director is the Registrar of Singapore ships.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               16

 (2) The Registrar must keep a register of ships registered as
Singapore ships under the provisions of this Part in accordance with
the following provisions:

(a) the property in a ship may be divided into any number of
     shares and such number must not be changed unless the
     ship is registered anew;

(b) a person is not entitled to be registered as an owner of a
     fractional part of a share in the ship;

          (c) joint owners are to be considered as constituting one
              person only as regards the persons entitled to be registered,
              and are not entitled to dispose of in severalty any interest in
              a ship or in any share therein in respect of which they are
              registered;

(d) a corporation may be registered as an owner by its
     corporate name.

Marking of ship

 10.—(1) Every ship must, before registry, be marked permanently
and conspicuously to the satisfaction of the Registrar as follows:

       (a) its name must be marked on each of its bows, and its name
            and the name of its port of registry must be marked on its
            stern, on a dark ground in white or yellow letters or on a
            light ground in black letters, such letters to be of a length
            not less than one decimetre and of proportionate breadth;

       (b) its official number must be cut in on its main beam;

       (c) a scale of decimetres, or of metres and decimetres,
            denoting its draught of water must be marked on each
            side of its stem and of its stern post —

               (i) in figures at two-decimetre intervals, if the scale is in
                   decimetres;

              (ii) in figures at each metre interval and at intervening
                   two-decimetre intervals, if the scale is in metres and
                   decimetres; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
17  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

    (iii) the capital letter “M” being placed after each metre
          figure; the top figure of the scale showing both the
          metre and (except where it marks a full metre
          interval) the decimetre figure; the lower line of
          figures, or figures and letters (as the case may be),
          coinciding with the draught line denoted thereby, the
          figures and letters being not less than one decimetre
          in length and being marked by being cut in and
          painted white or yellow on a dark ground, or in any
          other way that the Director may approve.

 (2) The Registrar may exempt any ship or class of ships from all or
any of the requirements of this section.

 (3) If the scale showing a ship’s draught of water is in any respect
inaccurate, so as to be likely to mislead, the owner of the ship shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000.

Application for initial registry

 11.—(1) An application for the registry of a ship must be —

       (a) made in writing by the person applying to be registered as
            owner or by some other person on the firstmentioned
            person’s behalf; and

       (b) submitted together with the declaration of ownership, the
            document of title to the ship, evidence of the cancellation
            of any foreign registry, the ship’s tonnage certificate, a
            certificate specifying the ship’s build and such other
            particulars as the Registrar may require, such evidence
            of seaworthiness as may be specified in the regulations
            made under section 45 and any other document relating to
            the ship that the Registrar may require.

 (2) A person is not entitled to be registered as owner of a ship or of a
share therein until the person, or, in the case of a corporation, the
person authorised under this Act to make declarations on behalf of the
corporation, has made and signed a declaration of ownership in the
prescribed form and containing the following particulars:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               18

(a) the name of the ship and its gross and net tonnages and any
     other particulars that may be prescribed;

(b) a statement of the person’s qualification to own a
     Singapore ship, or, in the case of a corporation, those
     circumstances of the constitution and business of the
     corporation as prove it to be qualified to own a Singapore
     ship;

          (c) a statement of the time when and the place where the ship
              was built, or, if the time and the place of building are
              unknown, a statement that the declarant does not know the
              time and place of its building;

(d) a statement as to the owner of the ship and the owner’s
     citizenship and, if the ship is owned by more than one
     person, the number of shares each of them is entitled to;

          (e) a declaration that, to the best of the person’s knowledge
              and belief, no unqualified person is entitled as owner to any
              legal or beneficial interest in the ship or any share therein.

Provisional registry

 12.—(1) The Registrar may provisionally register a ship and grant a
provisional certificate of registry if the application under section 11 is
not accompanied by the document of title, evidence of cancellation of
any foreign registry, the tonnage certificate or any other document
that the Registrar may determine.

 (2) The provisional registry of a ship is valid for a maximum period
of one year from the date of issue and the provisions of this Act and
any other written law apply to a ship provisionally registered under
this section, its owner and provisional certificate of registry as they
apply to a Singapore ship, its owner and certificate of registry.

Entry of particulars in register

 13.—(1) The Registrar must, if he or she is satisfied that the
requirements preliminary to registry, whether provisional or
otherwise, have been complied with by the applicant for the
registry of a ship and, upon payment of the fees specified in
section 14, enter in the register the following particulars of the ship:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
19  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

    (a) the name of the ship and the port to which it belongs;

    (b) the ship’s build and other particulars descriptive of the
         identity of the ship;

    (c) the particulars respecting its origin stated in the declaration
        of ownership;

    (d) the name and description of its owner and, if there are more
         owners than one, the proportions in which they are
         interested in the ship.

 (2) The Registrar may, at any time, make any other entries in the
register as he or she considers necessary.

Fees and tonnage taxes on registration

 14.—(1) The fee for the initial registration or registration anew of a
ship registered under this Part is $2.50 per net ton of the ship, subject
to a minimum of $1,250 and a maximum of $100,000.

 (2) An annual tonnage tax of 20 cents per net ton, subject to a
minimum of $100, is payable in respect of every Singapore ship.

 (3) The annual tonnage tax must be paid at the time of initial
registration or registration anew of the ship and thereafter annually on
or before the anniversary date of the initial registration or registration
anew, as the case may be.

 (4) All unpaid fees and tonnage taxes in respect of any ship due to
the Registrar constitute a maritime lien on the ship, subject only to
liens for wages.

 (5) The Minister may, either generally or on specific occasions,
reduce the fee or annual tonnage tax prescribed under this section.

 (6) Any person authorised by the Minister for the purposes of this
subsection may, either generally or on specific occasions, reduce the
fee prescribed under subsection (1).

                                                                                                             [3/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               20

Documents to be retained by Registrar

 15. On the registry of a ship, the Registrar must retain in his or her
possession all the documents submitted under section 11, except the
document of title.

Certificate of registry

 16.—(1) On completion of the registry of a ship, the Registrar must
grant a certificate of registry which must state the particulars entered
in the register.

 (2) Where a ship has been provisionally registered under section 12
without the tonnage certificate, the fees paid under section 14 must be
adjusted according to the tonnage established in the tonnage
certificate.

 (3) The provisional certificate of registry (if any) must be delivered
up to the Registrar for cancellation.

 (4) Where a ship has been provisionally registered under section 12
and its registry is not completed within the period specified in that
section, the registry of the ship is deemed to be closed (except in
relation to any unsatisfied mortgages entered therein) and the
Registrar must make an entry thereof in the register.

Use, custody and delivery up of certificate

 17.—(1) The certificate of registry of a ship must be used only for
the lawful navigation of the ship and must not be subject to detention
by reason of any title, lien, charge or interest whatsoever had or
claimed by any owner, mortgagee or other person to, on or in the ship.

 (2) Any person, whether interested in the ship or not, who refuses,
without reasonable cause, on request to deliver up the certificate of
registry when it is in the person’s possession or under the person’s
control to —

       (a) the person entitled to the custody thereof for the purposes
            of the lawful navigation of the ship;

       (b) the Registrar; or

       (c) any other person entitled by law to require such delivery,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
21  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000.

 (3) Where the registry of a ship is closed or deemed to be closed
under this Part (except under section 43), the registered owner of the
ship at the time of the closure who fails, without reasonable cause, to
deliver up the certificate of registry to the Registrar for cancellation
within 60 days of the closure shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

 (4) If any person uses or attempts to use for the navigation of a ship
a certificate of registry which is not legally granted in respect of the
ship or the registry of which has been closed or deemed to be closed,
the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

Transfer of ship and registration of bill of sale

 18.—(1) A Singapore ship or any share therein must be transferred
by a bill of sale.

 (2) The bill of sale for the transfer of a ship or any share therein to a
person qualified to own a Singapore ship must be in the prescribed
form and must contain such description of the ship as is contained in
the register and must be executed by the transferor in the presence of
and be attested by a witness or witnesses.

 (3) Every bill of sale must be produced to the Registrar and the
Registrar must thereupon enter in the register the name of the
transferee.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2025 wef 01/02/2026]

 (4) Bills of sale must be entered in the register in the order of their
production to the Registrar.

 (5) The Registrar must not make an entry under this section in
respect of any ship if there is —

       (a) any unsatisfied mortgage entered in its register, unless,
            where the ship or any share therein is transferred to a
            person qualified to own a Singapore ship, the mortgagee
            has given consent in writing;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               22

(b) any subsisting entry made under section 24 prohibiting any
     dealing with the ship;

          (c) any unpaid fees within the meaning of section 213(4) with
              respect to the ship; and

       (d) any outstanding claim of any crew member of the ship in
            respect of wages which has been notified to the Director.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

 (6) Subsection (5) does not apply in respect of a bill of sale
executed pursuant to an order of the General Division of the High
Court for the sale of a Singapore ship or any share therein.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Transfer to person qualified to own Singapore ship

 19.—(1) Where a Singapore ship or any share therein is transferred
to a person qualified to own a Singapore ship and the bill of sale is
registered under section 18, the ship must, subject to section 42, be
registered anew.

 (2) If the ship is not registered anew or its registry is not closed
within 60 days of the date on which the bill of sale (or the first bill of
sale if there are more than one bill of sale) is registered, the registry of
the ship is deemed to be closed (except in relation to any unsatisfied
mortgages entered therein) and the Registrar must make an entry
thereof in the register.

Transfer to person not qualified to own Singapore ship

 20.—(1) A Singapore ship or any share therein must not be
transferred to a person not qualified to own a Singapore ship if there
is —

       (a) any unsatisfied mortgage entered in its register;

       (b) any subsisting entry made under section 24 prohibiting any
            dealing with the ship;

       (c) any unpaid fees within the meaning of section 213(4) with
            respect to the ship; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
23  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

       (d) any outstanding claim of any crew member of the ship in
            respect of wages which has been notified to the Director.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

 (2) Where a Singapore ship or any share therein is transferred to a
person not qualified to own a Singapore ship and the bill of sale is
registered under section 18, the registry of the ship is deemed to be
closed and the Registrar must make an entry thereof in the register.

 (3) This section, except subsection (2), does not apply to a
Singapore ship or any share therein sold pursuant to an order of
the General Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Transmission of property in ship on marriage, bankruptcy,
death, etc.

 21.—(1) Where the property in a Singapore ship or any share
therein is transmitted to a person on the marriage, bankruptcy or death
of any registered owner, or by any lawful means other than by a
transfer under this Part —

       (a) that person must authenticate the transmission by making
            and signing a declaration of transmission identifying the
            ship and containing the particulars specified in
            section 11(2)(b) and (e), or as near thereto as
            circumstances admit, or if that person is not qualified to
            own a Singapore ship, a statement to that effect, and also a
            statement of the manner in which and the person to whom
            the property has been transmitted;

       (b) if the transmission is consequent on bankruptcy, the
            declaration of transmission must be accompanied by
            such evidence as is for the time being receivable in
            courts of law as proof of the title of persons claiming under
            a bankruptcy; and

       (c) if the transmission is consequent on death, the declaration
            of transmission must be accompanied by the instrument of
            representation, or an official extract therefrom.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               24

 (2) The declaration of transmission and the evidence under
subsection (1) must be produced to the Registrar and the Registrar
must make an entry thereof in the register.

 (3) Where the property in a Singapore ship or any share therein is
transmitted to a person qualified to own a Singapore ship, the ship
must, subject to section 42, be registered anew and if the ship is not
registered anew or its registry is not closed within 60 days of the date
on which the entry is made under subsection (2) or such longer period
not exceeding one year as the Registrar may allow, the registry of the
ship is deemed to be closed (except in relation to any unsatisfied
mortgages entered therein) and the Registrar must make an entry
thereof in the register.

Order for sale on transmission to unqualified person

 22.—(1) Where the property in a Singapore ship or any share
therein is transmitted on death or bankruptcy to a person not qualified
to own a Singapore ship, the General Division of the High Court may,
on the application by or on behalf of the unqualified person or any
other person having an interest in the ship, order a sale of the property
so transmitted and direct that the proceeds of the sale, after deducting
the expenses thereof, be paid to the person entitled under the
transmission or as the General Division of the High Court otherwise
directs.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) The General Division of the High Court may require any
evidence in support of the application and may make the order on any
terms and conditions or may refuse to make the order and generally
may act in any manner that the General Division of the High Court
thinks just.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) Every such application for sale must be made within 60 days
after the occurrence of the event on which the transmission has taken
place, or within such longer period not exceeding in aggregate
one year as the General Division of the High Court may allow.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (4) If such an application is not made within the period specified or
allowed under subsection (3), or if the General Division of the High

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
25  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

Court refuses an order for sale, the registry of the ship is deemed to be
closed (except in relation to any unsatisfied mortgages entered
therein) and the Registrar must make an entry thereof in the register.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Transfer of ship or sale by order of court

 23. Where any court, whether under the preceding sections of this
Act or otherwise, orders the sale of a ship or any share therein, the
order of the court is to contain a declaration vesting in some person
named by the court the right to transfer that ship or share, and that
person is thereupon entitled to transfer the ship or share in the same
manner and to the same extent as if that person were the registered
owner thereof; and the Registrar must accept the requisition of the
person so named in respect of any such transfer to the same extent as
if that person were the registered owner.

Power of General Division of High Court to prohibit transfer

 24.—(1) The General Division of the High Court may, if it thinks fit
(without affecting the exercise of any other power of the General
Division of the High Court), on the application of any interested
person make an order prohibiting for a specified time any dealing
with a ship or any share therein, and the General Division of the High
Court may make the order on any terms and conditions the General
Division of the High Court thinks just, or may refuse to make the
order or may discharge the order when made, with or without costs,
and generally may act in any manner that the General Division of the
High Court thinks just.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) The Registrar, without being made a party to the proceedings,
must, on being served with the order or an official copy thereof,
accept the same and make an entry thereof in the register.

Mortgage of ship or share

 25.—(1) A Singapore ship or any share therein may be made a
security for a loan or other valuable consideration, and the instrument
creating the security (called in this Part a mortgage) must be in the
prescribed form or as near thereto as circumstances permit, and on

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               26

production of that instrument the Registrar must record it in the
register.

 (2) Mortgages must be recorded by the Registrar in the order in time
in which they are produced to him or her for that purpose, and the
Registrar must endorse and sign a memorandum on each mortgage
stating the date and time of that record.

Obligation of mortgagor before execution and registration of
mortgage

 26.—(1) Before executing any mortgage to be registered under this
Act, the mortgagor must disclose in writing to the mortgagee the
existence of any maritime lien, prior mortgage, or other liability in
respect of the ship to be mortgaged, which is known to the mortgagor.

 (2) Where the mortgagor has failed to comply with this section, the
mortgage debt must, at the election of the mortgagee, become
immediately due and payable, despite anything to the contrary in the
mortgage.

Entry of discharge of mortgage

 27. Where a registered mortgage is discharged, the Registrar must,
on production of the mortgage, with the discharge duly signed and
attested, make an entry in the register to the effect that the mortgage
has been discharged, and on that entry being made, the estate (if any)
which passed to the mortgagee vests in the person in whom (having
regard to any intervening acts and circumstances) it would have
vested, if the mortgage had not been made.

Priority of mortgages

 28. If there are more than one mortgages registered in respect of the
same ship or share, the mortgagees must, despite any express, implied
or constructive notice, be entitled in priority one over the other,
according to the date and time of the record of each mortgage in the
register and not according to the date of each mortgage itself.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
27  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

Mortgagee not deemed to be owner

 29. Except as may be necessary for making a mortgaged ship or any
share therein available as a security for the mortgage debt, the
mortgagee is not, by reason of the mortgage, deemed to be the owner
of the ship or share, nor is the mortgagor deemed to have ceased to be
the owner of the ship or share.

Powers of mortgagee

 30.—(1) Every registered mortgagee has power absolutely to
dispose of the ship or share in respect of which the mortgagee is
registered, and to give effectual receipts for the purchase money; but
where there are more persons than one registered as mortgagees of the
same ship or share, a subsequent mortgagee must not, except under
the order of the General Division of the High Court, sell the ship or
share without the concurrence of every prior mortgagee.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) Every registered mortgagee is entitled to enforce the
mortgagee’s mortgage by an action in rem in admiralty whenever
any sum secured by the mortgage is unpaid when due or otherwise in
accordance with the terms of any deed or instrument collateral to the
mortgage.

Transfer of mortgages

 31.—(1) A registered mortgage of a ship or any share therein may
be transferred to any person and the instrument effecting the transfer
must be in the prescribed form or as near thereto as circumstances
permit, and on production of such instrument, the Registrar must
record the transfer by entering in the register the name of the
transferee as mortgagee of the ship or share and must endorse and
sign on the instrument of transfer a memorandum that the transfer has
been recorded by the Registrar stating the date and time of that record.

 (2) The person to whom any registered mortgage has been
transferred enjoys the same right of preference as was enjoyed by
the transferor.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               28

Transmission of interest in mortgage in certain circumstances

 32.—(1) Where the interest of a mortgagee in a Singapore ship or
any share therein is transmitted on the death or bankruptcy of the
mortgagee, or by any lawful means other than by a transfer under this
Act, the transmission must be authenticated by a declaration of the
person to whom the interest is transmitted.

 (2) A declaration made under this section must contain a statement
of the manner in which, and the person to whom, the property has
been transmitted, and must be accompanied by the like evidence as is
by this Act required in the case of a corresponding transmission of the
ownership of a Singapore ship or any share therein.

 (3) The Registrar must, on receipt of the declaration and production
of the evidence aforesaid, enter the name of the person entitled under
the transmission in the register as mortgagee of the ship or share.

Notice of trusts not received and equities not excluded

 33.—(1) No notice of any trust, express, implied or constructive,
may be entered in the register or be receivable by the Registrar, and,
subject to any rights and powers appearing on the register to be vested
in any other person, the registered owner of a ship or any share therein
has power absolutely to dispose, in the manner provided in this Part,
of the ship or share, and to give effectual receipts for any money paid
or advanced by way of consideration.

 (2) Subject to this section and sections 8 and 30, interests arising
under contract or other equitable interests may be enforced by or
against the owners and mortgagees of ships in respect of their
interests therein in the same manner as in respect of any other
personal property.

Alteration of ship

 34.—(1) When a Singapore ship is so altered as not to correspond
with the particulars relating to its tonnage or description contained in
the register, the owner must apply for the ship to be registered anew.

 (2) If the owner of a Singapore ship, without reasonable cause, fails
to register anew the ship so altered, the owner shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction for each offence to a fine not

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
29  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

exceeding $5,000 and to a further fine not exceeding $200 for every
day during which the offence continues after conviction.

Procedure for registry anew

 35.—(1) Where a ship is to be registered anew, the Registrar must
proceed as in the case of initial registry and upon the requisites to
registry, or those of them that the Registrar considers material, being
duly complied with, must make such registry anew and grant a new
certificate of registry.

 (2) Where a ship has been registered anew under subsection (1), the
former certificate of registry must be delivered up to the Registrar for
cancellation and the Registrar must make an entry thereof in the
former register.

 (3) Where a ship is registered anew, its former register is deemed to
be closed (except in relation to any unsatisfied mortgages entered on
the former register) but the names of all persons appearing on the
former register to be interested in the ship as owners or mortgagees
must be entered on the new register, and the registry anew must not in
any way affect the rights of any of those persons.

National colours for Singapore ships

 36.—(1) The Minister is to prescribe an ensign, which is the proper
national colours for a Singapore ship.

 (2) If any distinctive national colours other than the said ensign are
hoisted on board any Singapore ship without the consent of the
Minister, the master of the ship or the owner thereof if on board the
ship, and every other person hoisting the colours shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$1,000.

Penalty for not showing colours

 37.—(1) A Singapore ship must hoist the proper national colours on
entering or leaving any port.

 (2) If the master of a Singapore ship, without reasonable cause, fails
to comply with this section, the master shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               30

Certified copy or transcript of register

 38.—(1) Any person may, on payment of the prescribed fee, on
application to the Registrar at a reasonable time, inspect any register
of Singapore ships or apply for a certified copy or transcript thereof.

 (2) If the register of a Singapore ship is free of registered
encumbrances, the Registrar may, at the request of the applicant,
certify that fact in the copy or transcript of the register.

Correction of errors in register

 39.—(1) The Registrar may correct any clerical error or obvious
mistake in the register of a Singapore ship.

 (2) Any error relating to the particulars descriptive of a ship in the
register may be corrected by entry (but so that the original entry
remains legible) by the Registrar on the production to the Registrar,
by the owner requiring the error to be corrected, of a declaration
setting forth the nature of the error and the facts of the case and made
by the owner or some other person having knowledge of the facts of
the case.

Rectification of register by General Division of High Court

 40.—(1) Any person who is aggrieved by any incorrect entry or
omission in the register of a Singapore ship may apply to the General
Division of the High Court for rectification of the register and the
General Division of the High Court may make any order that it thinks
fit directing the rectification of the register.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) The General Division of the High Court may, in proceedings
under this section, decide any question that is necessary or expedient
to decide in connection with the rectification of the register.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) Notice of an application under this section by a person
aggrieved must be served on the Registrar, who may appear and be
heard, and must appear if so directed by the General Division of the
High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
31  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

 (4) An official copy of an order under this section must be served on
the Registrar who must, upon receipt of the order, rectify the register
accordingly.

Delivery up of certificate on loss, etc., of ship

 41.—(1) Where a Singapore ship is actually or constructively lost,
taken by the enemy, burnt or broken up, every owner of the ship or
any share therein must, immediately on having knowledge of the
event, if no notice thereof has already been given to the Registrar,
give notice thereof to the Registrar, and the Registrar must make an
entry thereof in the register and the registry of the ship is deemed to
be closed except in relation to any unsatisfied mortgages entered
therein.

 (2) In any such case, except where the ship’s certificate of registry
is lost or destroyed, the owner or the master of the ship must, within
30 days of the event, deliver the certificate to the Registrar.

 (3) Any owner or master of a ship who, without reasonable cause,
fails to comply with subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

Voluntary closure of registry

 42.—(1) The owner of a Singapore ship may make a written
application to close its registry if there is no —

       (a) unsatisfied mortgage entered in its register;

       (b) subsisting entry made under section 24 prohibiting any
            dealing with the ship;

       (c) unpaid fees within the meaning of section 213(4) with
            respect to the ship; and

       (d) outstanding claim of any crew member of the ship in
            respect of wages which has been notified to the Director.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

 (2) The application must specify the name of the ship, the intended
port and country of registry (if applicable) or otherwise the reason for
the closure and must be submitted to the Registrar together with the
certificate of registry of the ship.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               32

 (3) On receipt of the application and the certificate of registry, the
Registrar must, if the Registrar is satisfied of the matters mentioned in
subsection (1), close the registry of the ship and make an entry thereof
in the register.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, “owner” includes any
transferee of, or any person entitled under a transmission to the
property in, a Singapore ship.

Power of Authority to close registry and cancel certificate of
registry

 43.—(1) The Authority may close the registry of a Singapore ship
(except in relation to any unsatisfied mortgages entered therein) and
cancel its certificate of registry for any contravention of any of the
provisions of this Act or any international convention applicable to
Singapore.

 (2) The Authority may close the registry of a Singapore ship
(except in relation to any unsatisfied mortgages entered therein) and
cancel its certificate of registry if the Authority is satisfied that it is
not in the public interest for the ship to continue to be registered as a
Singapore ship.

 (3) Where the registry of a ship is closed under this section, the
registered owner of the ship at the time of the closure who fails to
deliver up the certificate of registry to the Registrar for cancellation
within 30 days of the closure shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

Rules as to name of ship

 44.—(1) A ship must not be registered under any name except a
name which is approved by the Registrar and a Singapore ship must
not be described by any name other than that by which it is for the
time being registered.

 (2) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations for the approval of a ship’s name and the changes thereto.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (2), the Authority may, with the
approval of the Minister, in the regulations —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
33  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

    (a) require an existing ship to be registered under its existing
         name unless a change thereof has been approved in
         accordance with the regulations; and

    (b) require an existing ship to change its name if it is the same
         as or similar to the name of a Singapore ship.

(4) In this section, “registered” includes registered anew.

Regulations on evidence of seaworthiness, etc.

 45.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make any regulations that the Authority considers necessary or
expedient to implement the provisions of this Part.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may, with the
approval of the Minister, in particular, make regulations —

       (a) specifying the documents which may be accepted as
            evidence of seaworthiness of a ship for the purposes of
            section 11;

       (b) providing for the submission of the documents to the
            Registrar at any time after the registry of a ship;

       (c) providing for the registration of pleasure craft;

       (d) providing for the registration of ships which are bareboat
            chartered by persons qualified to own Singapore ships;

       (e) providing for the suspension of the registry of a Singapore
            ship which is bareboat chartered out and registered in
            another state;

        (f) specifying the provisions of this Act which apply, with
            such modifications as may be specified, to a ship which is
            bareboat chartered by persons qualified to own Singapore
            ships; and

       (g) specifying the provisions of this Act which continue to
            apply, with such modifications as may be specified, despite
            the suspension of the registry of a Singapore ship and its
            registration in another country.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               34

                          PART 3

          MANNING AND CERTIFICATION

Application of this Part

46.—(1) This Part does not apply to —

(a) any ship employed exclusively in the fishing industry;

(b) any pleasure craft;

          (c) any harbour craft; and

(d) any ship which is not propelled by mechanical means.

 (2) Subject to subsection (1), this Part applies to every Singapore
ship and to any ship that enters or leaves any port in Singapore.

Manning and certification

 47.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations —

       (a) requiring ships to carry any number of qualified officers of
            any description, qualified doctors and any number of
            qualified or other seamen of any description that may be
            specified in the regulations;

       (b) prescribing standards of competence to be attained and
            other conditions to be satisfied (subject to any exemptions
            allowed by or under the regulations) by officers and other
            seamen of any description in order to be qualified for the
            purposes of this section; and

       (c) providing that existing certificates, except in such cases as
            are specified in the regulations, are deemed for the
            purposes of this Act to be issued pursuant to this section
            and to confer on the persons to whom they are issued any
            qualifications that may be specified in the regulations.

 (2) In subsection (1), “existing certificate” means a certificate
granted before 1 August 1986.

 (3) Without limiting paragraph (b) of subsection (1), the conditions
prescribed or specified under that paragraph may include conditions

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
35  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

as to nationality and regulations made for the purposes of that
paragraph may make provision for —

    (a) the manner in which the attainment of any standard or the
         satisfaction of any other condition is to be evidenced;

    (b) the conduct of any examination, the condition for
         admission to the examination and the appointment and
         remuneration of examiners; and

    (c) the issue, surrender, replacement, form and recording of
        certificates and other documents.

Prohibition of going to sea undermanned

 48. Subject to any exemption under section 215, if a ship goes to sea
or attempts to go to sea without carrying the number of officers,
doctors and other seamen that it is required to carry under section 47,
the owner or the master of the ship shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 and the
ship may be detained.

Unqualified persons going to sea as qualified officers

 49.—(1) If a person goes to sea as a qualified officer, doctor or
seaman of any description without being such a qualified officer,
doctor or seaman, that person shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

 (2) In this section, “qualified” means qualified for the purposes of
section 47.

Production of certificates and other documents of qualification

 50. Any person serving or engaged to serve in any ship and holding
any certificate or other document which is evidence that the person is
qualified for the purposes of section 47 must on demand produce it to
the Director, the Port Master, a surveyor of ships or any person
authorised by the Director and (if the firstmentioned person is not the
master) to the master of the ship; and if the firstmentioned person fails
to do so without reasonable cause the firstmentioned person shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $2,000.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               36

Certificate obtained by fraud

 51.—(1) Any person who fraudulently obtains a certificate under
this Part shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (2) The Authority may cancel any certificate issued under this Part
which is fraudulently obtained and the person to whom the certificate
has been issued must, upon being notified by the Director of its
cancellation, forthwith deliver it or cause it to be delivered to the
Director.

                                    PART 4

                             CREW MATTERS

Application of this Part and interpretation

 52.—(1) This Part does not apply to —

       (a) any ship employed exclusively in the fishing industry;

       (b) any pleasure craft;

       (c) any harbour craft; and

       (d) any ship which is not propelled by mechanical means.

 (2) Sections 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 62, 63, 64, 72, 73, 74, 75(1),
80, 81, 82, 83, 85, 86, 95 and 96 do not apply to any ship to which the
Merchant Shipping (Maritime Labour Convention) Act 2014 applies.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

 (3) Subject to subsection (1) and to any extension to foreign ships
under section 97, this Part applies only to Singapore ships.

 (4) For the purposes of this Part, except sections 72, 76, 77, 78, 80,
81 and 83, “seaman” (despite the definition in section 2) includes the
master of a ship.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

Crew agreements

 53.—(1) Except as provided under subsection (4), a written
agreement —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
37  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

    (a) must be made between each person employed as a seaman
         on a ship and the person employing that seaman; and

    (b) must be signed both by the person employed as a seaman
         on a ship and by or on behalf of the person employing that
         seaman.

 (2) The agreements made under this section with the several
persons employed on a ship must be contained in one document
(called in this Act a crew agreement) except that in any cases that the
Director may approve —

    (a) the agreements to be made under this section with the
         persons employed on a ship may be contained in more than
         one crew agreement; and

    (b) one crew agreement may relate to more than one ship.

 (3) Subject to this section, a crew agreement must be carried in the
ship to which the agreement relates whenever the ship goes to sea.

 (4) This section does not apply to any ship of less than 25 net tons
exclusively employed in trading within any limits that are prescribed
by regulations.

 (5) If a ship goes to sea or attempts to go to sea in contravention of
the requirements of this section, the master or the person employing
the crew of the ship shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000, and the ship may be
detained.

Regulations relating to crew agreements, engagement and
discharge of seamen

 54.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations prescribing the particulars to be entered in a crew
agreement and the procedure to be followed in connection with the
engagement and discharge of seamen from ships.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may, with the
approval of the Minister, in the regulations make provision —

       (a) regarding the period of validity of a crew agreement and
            the circumstances under which it may be extended;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               38

(b) requiring the engagement and discharge to be recorded,
     whether by entries in the crew agreement and discharge
     book or otherwise, and requiring copies of any such entry
     to be given to the Director;

          (c) requiring the posting in ships of copies of or extracts from
              crew agreements;

(d) for cases where a seaman employed on a ship is left behind
     otherwise than on being discharged from the ship; and

          (e) requiring the crew agreement to be produced to the
              Director when the ship is in Singapore.

Discharge of seamen when ship ceases to be registered in
Singapore

 55. Where a ship registered in Singapore ceases to be so registered,
any seaman employed on the ship must be discharged from the ship
unless the seaman consents in writing to continue his or her
employment on the ship; and sections 56 to 59 apply in relation to
his or her wages as if the ship had remained registered in Singapore.

Payment of seaman’s wages

 56.—(1) Except as provided by this Act or any other written law,
the wages due to a seaman under a crew agreement relating to a ship
must be paid to the seaman in full at the time when he or she leaves
the ship on being discharged therefrom (called in this section and in
section 57 the time of discharge).

 (2) If the amount shown in the account delivered to a seaman under
section 57(1) as being the amount payable to him or her under
subsection (1) is replaced by an increased amount shown in a further
account delivered to him or her under section 57(3), the balance must
be paid to him or her within 7 days of the time of discharge.

 (3) If any amount which, under subsection (2), is payable to a
seaman is not paid at the time at which it is so payable, the seaman is
entitled to wages at the rate last payable under the crew agreement for
every day on which it remains unpaid until the full amount is paid.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
39  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

 (4) Subsection (3) does not apply if the failure to pay was due to any
reasonable dispute as to liability or to the act or default of the seaman
or to any other cause, not being the wrongful act or default of the
person liable to pay the seaman’s wages or of that person’s employee
or agent.

 (5) Where a seaman is employed under a crew agreement relating to
more than one ship, this section has effect, in relation to wages due to
the seaman under the agreement, as if for any reference to the time of
discharge there were substituted a reference to the termination of his
or her employment under the crew agreement.

 (6) Where a seaman is discharged under section 55, from a ship
outside his or her port of return but returns to that port under
arrangement made by the person who employed the seaman, this
section has effect, in relation to the wages due to the seaman under a
crew agreement relating to the ship, as if for the references in
subsections (1) to (3) to the time of discharge there were substituted
references to the time of the seaman’s return to that port and
subsection (5) were omitted.

Account of seaman’s wages

 57.—(1) Subject to subsection (4) and to regulations made under
section 58 or 85, the master of every ship must deliver to every
seaman employed on the ship under a crew agreement an account of
wages due to the seaman under that crew agreement and of the
deductions subject to which the wages are payable.

 (2) The account must indicate that the amounts stated therein are
subject to any later adjustment that may be found necessary and must
be delivered not later than 24 hours before the time of discharge or, if
the seaman is discharged without notice or at less than 24 hours’
notice, at the time of discharge.

 (3) If the amounts stated in the account require adjustment, the
person who employed the seaman must deliver to the seaman a
further account stating the adjusted amounts; and that account must
be delivered to the seaman not later than the time at which the balance
of his or her wages is payable to the seaman.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               40

 (4) Where a seaman is employed under a crew agreement relating to
more than one ship any account which under this section would be
required to be delivered to the seaman by the master of the ship must
instead be delivered to the seaman by the person employing the
seaman and must be so delivered on or before the termination of the
seaman’s employment under the crew agreement.

 (5) If a person, without reasonable cause, fails to comply with any
of the provisions of this section, the person shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000.

Regulations relating to wages and accounts

 58. The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations —

       (a) authorising deductions to be made from the wages due to a
            seaman under a crew agreement (in addition to any
            deduction authorised by any of the provisions of this Act
            or any other written law) in cases where a breach of his or
            her obligation under the crew agreement is alleged against
            the seaman and any condition that may be specified in the
            regulations are complied with, or in any other cases that
            may be specified in the regulations;

       (b) regulating the manner in which the amounts deducted
            under the regulations are to be dealt with;

       (c) prescribing the manner in which any wages due to a
            seaman under a crew agreement are to be or may be paid;

       (d) regulating the manner in which any wages due to a seaman
            under a crew agreement are to be dealt with and accounted
            for in circumstances where a seaman leaves his or her ship
            otherwise than on being discharged therefrom; and

       (e) prescribing the form and manner in which any account
            required to be delivered under section 57 is to be prepared
            and the particulars to be contained therein (which may
            include estimated amounts).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
41  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

Settlement of disputes

 59.—(1) Any dispute, of whatever nature, between a seaman and
the person employing the seaman, the master or the owner of a ship
may be submitted by any party to the Director for decision, or, in the
case of a dispute relating to the amount payable to a seaman under a
crew agreement and the amount exceeds $5,000, by all the parties
involved except that if the Director is of opinion that the dispute is
one which ought to be decided by a court of law, the Director may
refuse to decide it.

 (2) The decision of the Director on a dispute submitted to the
Director under this section is final.

 (3) An award made by the Director upon the submission is
conclusive as to the rights of the parties, and the submission or
award does not require a stamp; and a document purporting to be the
submission or award is admissible as evidence thereof.

Restriction on attachment or assignment of and charge upon
crew member’s wages

 60.—(1) Subject to this section, the following provisions have
effect with respect to the wages due or accruing to a crew member
employed on a ship:

       (a) the wages are not subject to attachment;

       (b) an assignment thereof before they have accrued does not
            bind the crew member and the payment of the wages to the
            crew member is valid despite any previous assignment or
            charge;

       (c) a power of attorney or authority for the receipt of the wages
            is not irrevocable.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

 (2) Nothing in this section affects the provisions of this Act or the
Merchant Shipping (Maritime Labour Convention) Act 2014 with
respect to allotment notes.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

 (3) Nothing in this section applies to any disposition relating to the
application of wages —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               42

(a) in the payment of contributions to a fund declared by
     regulations to be a fund to which this section applies; or

(b) in the payment of contributions in respect of the
     membership of a body declared by regulations to be a
     body to which this section applies,

or to anything done or to be done for giving effect to such a
disposition.

Assignment or sale of salvage invalid

 61. Subject to this Act, an assignment or sale of salvage payable to a
crew member made prior to the accruing thereof does not bind the
person making the assignment or sale of salvage; and a power of
attorney or authority for the receipt of any such salvage is not
irrevocable.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

Allotment notes

 62.—(1) Subject to this section, a seaman may, by means of an
allotment note issued in accordance with regulations, allot to any
person part of the wages to which the seaman will become entitled in
the course of the seaman’s employment on a ship.

 (2) A seaman’s right to make an allotment under this section is
subject to any limitations that may, by virtue of subsection (3), be
imposed by regulations.

 (3) Regulations made for the purposes of this section may prescribe
the form of allotment notes and may —

       (a) limit the circumstances in which allotment notes may be
            made;

       (b) limit (whether by reference to an amount or by reference to
            a proportion) the part of the wages that may be allotted and
            the number of persons to whom it may be allotted and may
            prescribe the method by which that part is to be calculated;

       (c) limit the persons to whom the allotments may be made by a
            seaman to persons of such descriptions or persons standing

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
43  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

    to the seaman in such relationships as may be prescribed by
    the regulations; and

    (d) prescribe the times and the intervals at which payments
         under allotment notes are to be made.

Right of person named in allotment note to sue in own name

 63.—(1) A person to whom any part of a seaman’s wages has been
allotted by an allotment note issued in accordance with regulations
made under section 62 has the right to recover that part in the person’s
own name and for that purpose has the same remedies as the seaman
has for the recovery of his or her wages.

 (2) In any proceedings brought by a person named in such an
allotment note as the person to whom any part of a seaman’s wages
has been allotted, it is presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that
the seaman is entitled to the wages specified in the note and that the
allotment has not been varied or cancelled.

Right, or loss of right, to wages in certain circumstances

 64.—(1) Where a ship is wrecked or lost, a seaman whose
employment on the ship is thereby terminated before the date
contemplated in the agreement under which he or she is so employed
is, subject to this section, entitled to wages at the rate payable under
the agreement at the date of the wreck or loss for every day on which
he or she is unemployed in the 2 months following that date unless it
is proved that he or she did not make reasonable efforts to save the
ship and the persons and property carried in it.

 (2) Where a ship is sold or ceases to be registered in Singapore and
a seaman’s employment on the ship is thereby terminated before the
date contemplated in the agreement under which he or she is so
employed, then, unless otherwise provided in the agreement, the
seaman is, subject to subsection (3), entitled to wages at the rate
payable under the agreement at the date on which his or her
employment is terminated for every day on which he or she is
unemployed in the 2 months following that date.

 (3) A seaman is not entitled to wages by virtue of subsection (1) or
(2) for a day on which he or she was unemployed, if it is shown —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               44

(a) that the unemployment was not due to the wreck or loss of
     the ship or (as the case may be) the termination of his or her
     employment on the sale of the ship or its ceasing to be
     registered in Singapore; or

(b) that the seaman was able to obtain suitable employment for
     that day but unreasonably refused to take it.

Compensation to crew member improperly discharged

 65. If a crew member, having signed an agreement, is discharged
otherwise than in accordance with the terms thereof before the
commencement of the voyage, or before one month’s wages are
earned, without fault on his or her part justifying that discharge, and
without his or her consent, the crew member is entitled to receive
from the person employing the crew member, in addition to any
wages which the crew member has earned, due compensation for the
damage caused to the crew member by the discharge, not exceeding
one month’s wages and may recover that compensation as if it were
wages duly earned.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

Wages on termination of service by illness

 66. Where the service of a crew member terminates before the date
contemplated in his or her agreement, by reason of his or her being
left ashore at any place outside his or her port of return under a
medical certificate of unfitness or inability to proceed on a voyage,
the crew member is entitled to wages up to the time of such
termination, but not for any longer period.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

Protection of certain rights and remedies

 67.—(1) A seaman’s lien and a crew member’s remedies for the
recovery of his or her wages, his or her right to wages in case of the
wreck or loss of his or her ship, and any right he or she may have or
obtain in the nature of salvage is not capable of being renounced by
any agreement.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

 (2) Subsection (1) does not affect such term of any agreement made
with a crew member belonging to a ship which, in accordance with

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
45  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

the agreement, is to be employed on salvage service, as provide for
the remuneration to be paid to the crew member for salvage services
rendered by that ship.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

Remedies of master for remuneration, disbursements, etc.

 68. The master of a ship has the same lien and remedies for his or
her remuneration and all disbursements or liabilities properly made or
incurred by the master on account of the ship, as a seaman has for his
or her wages.

Powers of court in case of unreasonable delay in paying crew
member’s wages

 69. In any action or other legal proceedings by any crew member of
a ship for the recovery of any sum due to him or her on account of
wages, the court may, if it appears that the payment of the sum due
has been delayed otherwise than owing to the act or default of the
crew member or to any reasonable dispute as to liability, or to any
other cause not being the wrongful act or default of the person liable
to make the payment, order that person to pay, in addition to any sum
due on account of wages, any sum that the court thinks just as
damages in respect of the delay, without affecting any claim which
may be made by the crew member on that account.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

Provisions and water

 70.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations —

       (a) requiring provisions and drinking water to be provided for
            crew members employed on ships;

       (b) providing for the quality, nutritional value and quantity of
            provisions and drinking water to be provided;

       (c) regulating the storage and handling of provisions and
            drinking water; and

       (d) regulating the organisation and equipment of the catering
            department.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               46

 (2) The owner and master of a ship must ensure that provisions and
drinking water provided in accordance with subsection (1) are
provided free of charge to all crew members while they are on board.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

 (3) Regulations made under this section may require a ship to carry
any weighing and measuring equipment that may be necessary to
ensure that the quantities of provisions and water supplied to crew
members employed on the ship are in accordance with the
regulations.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

 (4) If any regulation made under this section is not complied with,
the master or the person employing the crew members of the ship
(each called a defendant) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 unless the
defendant proves that the failure to comply was not due to the
defendant’s neglect or default.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

 (5) If a person empowered under this Act to inspect the provisions
and water to be supplied to the crew members employed on a ship is
not satisfied that the provisions and water are in accordance with
regulations made under this section, the ship may be detained.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

Complaints about provisions or water

 71.—(1) If 3 or more crew members employed on a ship consider
that the provisions or water provided for the crew members employed
on that ship are not in accordance with the regulations made under
section 70 (whether because of bad quality, unfitness for use or
deficiency in quantity) they may complain to the master of the ship
who must investigate the complaint.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

 (2) If the crew members are dissatisfied with the action taken by the
master as a result of his or her investigation or by his or her failure to
take any action, they may state their dissatisfaction to the master and
may complain to the Director; and thereupon the master must make
adequate arrangements to enable the crew members to do so as soon
as the service of the ship permits.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
47  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

 (3) The Director must, upon receiving the complaint made under
subsection (2), investigate the complaint and may examine the
provisions or water or cause them to be examined.

 (4) If the master of a ship, without reasonable cause, fails to comply
with subsection (2), the master shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 and if the
master has been notified in writing by the person making any
examination under subsection (3) that any provisions or water are
found to be unfit for use or not of the quality required by the
regulations, then —

    (a) if they are not replaced within a reasonable time the master
         or the owner of the ship (each called a defendant) shall be
         guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
         fine not exceeding $5,000 unless the defendant proves that
         the failure to replace them was not due to the defendant’s
         neglect or default; and

    (b) if the master of the ship, without reasonable cause, permits
         them to be used, the master shall be guilty of an offence
         and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
         $5,000.

Other complaints

 72.—(1) If a seaman employed on a ship considers that he or she
has cause to complain about the master or any other seaman
employed on the ship or about the conditions on board the ship, the
seaman may complain to the master.

 (2) If the seaman is dissatisfied with the action taken by the master
on the complaint or by the master’s failure to take any action, the
seaman may state his or her dissatisfaction to the master and may
complain to the Director; and thereupon the master must make
adequate arrangements to enable the seaman to do so as soon as the
service of the ship permits.

 (3) If the master of a ship, without reasonable cause, fails to comply
with this section, the master shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.        Merchant Shipping Act 1995                         48

Medical stores

 73.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations requiring ships to carry any medicines and other
medical stores (including books containing instructions and advice)
that may be specified in the regulations.

 (2) If a ship goes to sea or attempts to go to sea without carrying the
medical stores which it is required to carry by regulations made under
this section, the master or the owner of the ship (each called a
defendant) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 unless the defendant proves
that the failure to carry the medical stores was not due to the
defendant’s neglect or default.

 (3) If a person empowered under this Act to inspect the medical
stores carried in a ship is not satisfied that the ship carries the stores
which it is required to carry by the regulations made under this
section, the ship may be detained.

Medical treatment on board ship

 74. Where a ship does not carry a doctor among the seamen
employed on it, the master of the ship must make arrangements for
securing that any medical attention on board the ship is given either
by the master or under the master’s supervision by a person appointed
by the master for the purpose.

Expenses of medical treatment, etc., during voyage

 75.—(1) If a seaman, while employed on a ship, receives any
surgical or medical treatment or such dental or optical treatment
(including the repair or replacement of any appliance) as cannot be
postponed without impairing efficiency, the reasonable expenses
thereof must be borne by the person employing the seaman, and if the
seaman dies while so employed and is buried or cremated outside his
or her port of return, the expenses of his or her burial or cremation or
the return of the body to his or her home must also be borne by that
person.

 (2) A compensation is payable by the person employing a seaman
for the death of or injury to the seaman employed on a Singapore ship

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
49  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

who is not covered under the Work Injury Compensation Act 2019 or
the Work Injury Compensation Act (Cap. 354, 2009 Revised Edition)
repealed by that Act and such compensation must not be less than that
provided under that Act.

                                                                                                 [5/2008; 27/2019]

Drunkenness, etc., on board ship

 76. If a seaman employed on a ship is, while on board the ship,
under the influence of drink, a drug or a psychoactive substance to
such an extent that his or her capacity to fulfil his or her responsibility
for the ship or to carry out his or her duties is impaired, the seaman
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2023 wef 01/06/2024]

Continued or concerted disobedience, neglect of duty, etc.

 77.—(1) If a seaman employed on a ship —

       (a) persistently and wilfully neglects his or her duty;

       (b) persistently and wilfully disobeys lawful commands; or

       (c) combines with other seamen employed on the ship —

               (i) to disobey lawful commands which are required to
                   be obeyed at a time while the ship is at sea;

              (ii) to neglect any duty which is required to be
                   discharged at such time; or

             (iii) to impede, at such a time, the progress of a voyage or
                   the navigation of the ship,

the seaman shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (2) For the purposes of this section, a ship is treated as being at sea
at any time when it is not securely moored in a safe berth.

Offences committed by certain other persons

 78. Where a person goes to sea in a ship without the consent of the
master of the ship or of any other person authorised to give it or is

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               50

conveyed in a ship pursuant to section 85(4)(a), section 77(1)(b) and
(c) applies as if that person were a seaman employed on the ship.

Defence of drug or psychoactive substance taken for medical
purposes

 79. In any proceedings for an offence under section 76, it is a
defence to prove that at the time of the act or omission alleged against
the defendant, the defendant was under the influence of a drug or
psychoactive substance taken by him or her for medical purposes and
either that he or she took it on medical advice and complied with any
directions given as part of that advice or that he or she had reason to
believe that the drug or psychoactive substance might not have the
influence it had.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2023 wef 01/06/2024]

Disciplinary offences

 80.—(1) For the purpose of maintaining discipline on board a ship,
the Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations prescribing any misconduct on board as a disciplinary
offence and enabling the master of the ship, or any officer that may
under the regulations be required or authorised to exercise the powers
of the master, to impose fines on any seaman committing any
disciplinary offence.

 (2) The regulations made under this section may provide for —

       (a) the fine that may be imposed on a seaman in respect of
            each disciplinary offence;

       (b) the procedure to be followed in dealing with the
            disciplinary offence; and

       (c) the circumstances in which the master of a ship may remit
            the whole or part of any fine imposed thereunder.

Appeal against fine for disciplinary offences

 81.—(1) A seaman on whom a fine has been imposed for a
disciplinary offence may, in accordance with the regulations made
under this section, appeal against the decision to the Director, and on

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
51  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

such an appeal, the Director may confirm or quash the decision and
may remit the whole or part of the fine.

 (2) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations under this section to provide for —

    (a) the procedure to be followed on any such appeal;

    (b) the time within which notice of an intended appeal is to be
         given by the appellant to the master and by the master to
         the Director; and

    (c) the place at which the appeal is to be heard.

Prohibition of double prosecution

 82. Where any conduct is both a disciplinary offence and an offence
against any provision of this Act, then if it has been dealt with as a
disciplinary offence, it must not be dealt with as an offence against
that provision.

Payment of fines for disciplinary offences

 83.—(1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (3), the
amount of a fine imposed on a seaman for a disciplinary offence,
so far as not remitted by the master or on appeal, may be deducted
from the seaman’s wages or otherwise recovered by the person
employing the seaman and must be paid by the seaman (whether or
not it has been so deducted or otherwise recovered) to the Director.

 (2) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (3) —

       (a) if the wages or part of the wages are paid by the master of a
            ship on the master’s own behalf or on behalf of the person
            employing the seaman (as the case may be), the said
            amount must be paid at the time when the seaman leaves
            the ship at the end of the seaman’s agreement or, if earlier,
            when the seaman’s employment on the ship is terminated;

       (b) in any other case, the master must at that time notify the
            amount to the person employing the seaman, and the
            person must pay it when the next payment in respect of the
            seaman’s wages falls to be made by the person.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               52

 (3) Where an appeal against such a fine is pending at the time
mentioned in subsection (2), no amount is to by reason of the fine be
deducted, recovered, paid or notified under subsections (1) and (2)
until the appeal has been disposed of; but regulations made under
section 80 may provide for the amount of the fine to be provisionally
deducted from the seaman’s wages pending the appeal.

Civil liability for smuggling

 84. If a crew member employed on a ship is found in civil
proceedings before a court in Singapore or elsewhere to have
committed an act of smuggling, whether in Singapore or elsewhere,
he or she is liable to make good any loss or expense that the act has
caused to any other person.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

Relief and repatriation of seaman left behind

 85.—(1) Where a person employed as a seaman on a ship is left
behind in any country or is taken to any country on being
shipwrecked, the person who last employed that person as a
seaman must make such provision for the seaman’s return and for
the seaman’s relief and maintenance as may be required by
regulations.

 (2) The regulations to be so made may include the repayment of
expenses incurred in bringing a shipwrecked seaman ashore and
maintaining the seaman until the seaman is brought ashore and the
payment of the expenses of the burial or cremation of a seaman who
dies before he or she can be returned.

 (3) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations providing for the manner in which any wages due to any
person left behind or taken to any country as mentioned in
subsection (1) and any property of the person left on board the
ship are to be dealt with.

 (4) Without limiting subsections (1), (2) and (3), regulations made
under this section may make provision —

       (a) for requiring the master of any ship to convey a person to a
            place determined in accordance with the regulations and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
53  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

    for enabling the Director to give the master directions for
    that purpose;

    (b) for the making of payments in respect of the conveyance of
         a person in accordance with the regulations; and

    (c) for the keeping of records and the rendering of accounts.

 (5) This section also applies to a person left behind on being
discharged pursuant to section 55, whether or not at the time the
person is left behind the ship is still registered in Singapore.

Limit of employer’s liability under section 85

 86. Where a person (called in this section A) left behind in or taken
to any country as mentioned in section 85(1) remains there after the
end of a period of 3 months, the person who last employed A as a
seaman (called in this section the employer) is not liable under that
section to make provision for A’s return or for any matter arising after
the end of that period, unless the employer has, before the end of that
period, been under an obligation imposed on the employer by
regulations made under that section to make provision with respect
to A.

Custody, etc., of property of deceased crew members

 87.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations providing for the custody of and dealing with —

       (a) any property left on board a ship by a crew member dying
            while or after being employed on the ship;

       (b) any property left in a country outside Singapore by a crew
            member dying while or within any period that is provided
            for in the regulations after being employed on a ship; and

       (c) the recovery by the Director of any wages which, at the
            time of a crew member’s death, were due to the crew
            member in respect of the crew member’s employment on a
            ship.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

 (2) Regulations made under this section may require the recording
of particulars and the rendering of accounts and may enable the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               54

Director or any person having custody of any such property to sell it
by auction or otherwise and account for the proceeds.

Disposal of property of deceased crew members

 88.—(1) Where, on the death of a crew member, any property
comes into the hands of the Director by virtue of section 87, the
Director may satisfy out of them any expenses incurred by the
Director in respect of the crew member or the crew member’s
property.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

 (2) If the value of the residue of the property does not exceed
$5,000, the Director may at any time pay or deliver it to any of the
persons mentioned in subsection (3) or distribute it among them,
unless a grant of representation has then been made and the Director
knows of it; and the Director is thereby discharged from any further
liability in respect of the residue.

 (3) The persons referred to in subsection (2) are —

       (a) any person appearing to the Director to be a person named
            as the crew member’s next of kin in the crew agreement or
            seafarer’s employment agreement (as the case may be) in
            which the crew member’s name last appeared;

       (b) any person appearing to the Director to be the crew
            member’s widow or the crew member’s child;

       (c) any person appearing to the Director to be beneficially
            entitled, under a will or on intestacy, to the crew member’s
            estate or any part thereof; or

       (d) any person appearing to the Director to be a creditor of the
            crew member.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

 (4) Where no claim to the property received by the Director is
substantiated within one year after the receipt of the property by the
Director, the Director must pay the property, the proceeds thereof, or
the residue thereof, into the Consolidated Fund.

 (5) If any subsequent claim is made to such property, or the residue
thereof, and is established to the satisfaction of the Director, the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
55  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

amount, or so much as appears to be due to the claimant, must be paid
out of the Consolidated Fund.

 (6) If any claim is not established to the satisfaction of the Director,
the claimant may apply by originating application to the General
Division of the High Court, and the General Division of the High
Court, after taking evidence orally or on affidavit, may make any
order on the application that it thinks just.

                                                                                                [42/2005; 40/2019]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (7) After the end of 6 years from the receipt of such property or
proceeds thereof by the Director, no such claim may be made without
the sanction of the Minister.

 (8) If it appears to the Director that any of the persons to whom any
property may be paid or delivered under this section is resident in a
country outside Singapore, the Director may pay or deliver the
property to him or her by paying or delivering the property to a
consular officer of that country for transmission to him or her.

 (9) If the property exceeds $5,000 in value, the Director shall pay
and deliver the residue to the legal personal representative of the
deceased.

(10) In this section, “child” includes an adopted child.

Official and other logbooks

 89.—(1) Except as provided by regulations made under this
section, an official logbook and such other logbooks as may be
prescribed in the regulations must be kept in every ship.

 (2) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations prescribing the particulars to be entered in the logbooks,
the persons by whom such entries are to be made, signed or
witnessed, and the procedure to be followed in the making of such
entries and their amendment or cancellation.

 (3) Regulations may require the production or delivery of the
logbooks to such persons, in such circumstances and within such
times as may be specified therein.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               56

 (4) A person who wilfully destroys, mutilates or renders illegible
any entry in any logbook, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

Discharge books

 90.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations providing —

       (a) for the issue of discharge books in such form and
            containing such particulars with respect to the holders
            thereof and such other particulars as may be prescribed by
            the regulations and for requiring such persons to apply for
            such discharge books;

       (b) for requiring the holders of discharge books to produce
            them to such persons and in such circumstances as may be
            prescribed by the regulations; and

       (c) for the surrender of discharge books in such circumstances
            as may be prescribed by the regulations.

 (2) Any provision of the regulations having effect by virtue of
paragraph (a) of subsection (1) may be so framed as to apply to any
persons that are mentioned in that paragraph or any description of
those persons and as to have effect subject to any exemptions for
which provisions may be made by the regulations.

Returns of births and deaths in ships, etc.

 91.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations —

       (a) requiring the master of any ship to make a return to the
            Director of any birth or death occurring in the ship;

       (b) requiring the master of any ship to conduct an inquiry to
            determine the nature and cause and make a report to the
            Director of any death occurring in the ship and, wherever
            occurring outside Singapore, of any person employed on
            the ship, and to notify any such death to any person that the
            deceased may have named as his or her next of kin; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
57  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

    (c) requiring the master of any ship not registered in Singapore
        which calls at Singapore in the course of or at the end of a
        voyage to make a return to the Director of any birth or
        death of a citizen of Singapore which has occurred in the
        ship during the voyage.

 (2) Regulations made under this section may require the Director to
send a certified copy of any return made thereunder to the
Registrar‑General of Births and Deaths.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2021 wef 29/05/2022]

 (3) [Deleted by Act 17 of 2021 wef 29/05/2022]

(4) [Deleted by Act 17 of 2021 wef 29/05/2022]

 (5) Any person who, being required under the regulations made
under this section to make a return of any birth or death or a report on
the inquiry into the cause of any death, furnishes as true any
information in the return or report which the person knows or has
reason to believe to be false shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

Handing over of documents on change of master

 92. If a person ceases to be the master of a ship, the person must
deliver to his or her successor the documents relating to the ship or its
crew which are in the person’s custody; and if the person without
reasonable cause fails to do so, the person shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

Stowaways

 93.—(1) A person who, without the consent of the master of the
ship or of any other person authorised to give it, goes to sea or
attempts to go to sea in a ship shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (2) Nothing in section 180 is to be taken to limit the jurisdiction of
any court in Singapore to deal with an offence under this section
which has been committed in a country outside Singapore by a person
who is not a citizen of Singapore.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               58

Master’s power of arrest

 94. The master of any ship may cause any person on board the ship
to be put under restraint if and for so long as it appears to the master
necessary or expedient in the interest of safety or for the preservation
of good order or discipline on board the ship.

Penalty for receiving remuneration from seamen for
engagement

 95.—(1) A person must not demand or receive, directly or
indirectly, from a seaman, or from a person seeking employment as
a seaman, or from a person on his or her behalf, any remuneration
whatever for providing him or her with employment.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction for each offence to a fine not
exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Restriction on employment of young persons on board ship

 96.—(1) No young person is to be employed on any ship except as
permitted by regulations made under this section.

 (2) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations prescribing the circumstances in which and the conditions
subject to which young persons who have attained such specified age
may be employed on a ship in such capacities as may be specified.

 (3) If any person is employed on a ship in contravention of any
regulations made under this section or if any condition subject to
which a person may be employed under any such regulation is not
complied with, the owner or the master of the ship shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000.

Extension to foreign ships

 97. The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, by
regulations extend the application of all or any of the provisions of
this Part to foreign ships subject to any modifications that are
specified in those regulations.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
59  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

                          PART 5

    SURVEY AND SAFETY

Application of this Part

 98. This Part, unless otherwise provided, applies to all Singapore
ships wherever they may be and to all ships in Singapore except
harbour craft.

Prohibition on going to sea without certificates

 99.—(1) Every ship unless exempted must be surveyed or
inspected in the manner provided in this Act.

 (2) Subject to any exemption, no ship is to go to sea unless the
owner or the master of the ship has been issued with certificates by
the Director as to the surveys or inspections under this Act, the
certificates being in force and applicable to the ship.

 (3) If any ship goes or attempts to go to sea in contravention of this
section —

       (a) in the case of a passenger ship, the owner or the master of
            the ship shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
            conviction to a fine not exceeding $500 for every
            passenger on board the ship; and

       (b) in the case of any other ship, the owner or the master of the
            ship shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
            conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000,

and the ship may be detained until the certificates are produced to the
Director or the Port Master.

Powers of Authority to make regulations

 100.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this
Part.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may, with the
approval of the Minister, make regulations providing for —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               60

(a) the standards of construction and equipment of ships
     including the provision of lifesaving and firefighting
     appliances and radio installations;

(b) the standards of accommodation and recreational facilities
     for crew and passengers;

          (c) the tonnage measurement of ships;

(d) the determination of the load lines;

          (e) the loading and carriage of goods, including dangerous
              goods;

          (f) the carriage of livestock;

(g) the safety of navigation;

(h) the prevention of collisions at sea (called in this Act the
     collision regulations);

          (i) the safety, health and welfare of persons employed on
              ships;

          (j) the manner and frequency of the survey or inspection and
              the issue, suspension, cancellation, extension and period of
              the validity of certificates or exemption certificates; and

       (k) the recognition of certificates or exemption certificates
            issued by or under the authority of the government of any
            other country for the purposes of section 99.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

 (3) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, in the
regulations make provisions to give effect to the provisions of any
international convention or agreement concerning or relating to ships,
ships’ safety, ships’ equipment, property or goods carried in ships or
persons employed on ships and to which Singapore is a party.

 (4) The owner and the master of any ship to which section 99
applies must comply with any regulations made under this section
and must ensure that the ship and its equipment and in respect of any
matter that is governed by the regulations comply with any such
regulations before the ship goes to sea and at all times when the ship
is at sea, unless otherwise provided in this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
61  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

 (5) Any owner or master who contravenes subsection (4) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 and the ship may be detained.

Overloaded ships

 101.—(1) Where a cargo ship is so loaded at any time that, if the
ship were floating without a list in still salt water of a specific gravity
of 1.025, the load line marked on either side of the ship that is the
appropriate load line at the time would be submerged, the ship is, for
the purposes of this Act, deemed to be overloaded, and, subject to
subsection (4), to be overloaded to the extent which that load line
would be submerged.

 (2) Where —

       (a) a ship is at any time engaged on, or is about to engage on, a
            voyage during which, in the ordinary course, a load line
            marked on either side of the ship (not being a load line that
            is the appropriate load line at that time) would, at some
            later time during the voyage, become the appropriate load
            line; and

       (b) the ship is so loaded at that firstmentioned time, that if the
            ship were floating without a list in still salt water of a
            specific gravity of 1.025 and there were unloaded from the
            ship the fuel and other material that would, in the ordinary
            course, be consumed or discharged before that later time,
            that load line would be submerged,

the ship is, for the purposes of this Act, deemed to be overloaded and,
subject to subsection (4), to be overloaded to the extent to which that
load line would be so submerged.

 (3) Where a passenger ship is so loaded at any time that, if the ship
were floating without a list in still salt water of a specific gravity of
1.025, the subdivision load line marked on either side of the ship that
is the appropriate subdivision load line at that time would be
submerged, the ship is, for the purposes of this Act, deemed to be
overloaded and, subject to subsection (4), to be overloaded to the
extent to which that subdivision load line would be so submerged.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.     Merchant Shipping Act 1995                            62

(4) Where —

(a) in any proceedings under this Act, it is proved that a ship is
     deemed to be overloaded under the provisions of more than
     one subsection of this section; and

(b) the extent to which, under those subsections, the ship is
     deemed to be overloaded is not the same in each case,

the ship is, for the purposes of this Act, deemed to be overloaded to
the greatest extent to which it is deemed to be overloaded under those
subsections.

 (5) Where a ship is overloaded in contravention of this section, the
owner and the master of the ship shall each be liable on conviction to
a fine not exceeding $10,000 and to such additional fine not
exceeding the maximum amount which the earning capacity of the
ship would have been increased by reason of the contravention.

 (6) Without affecting any proceedings under this section, any ship
which is overloaded in contravention of this section may be detained
until it ceases to be so overloaded.

 (7) For the purposes of this section, the load line or subdivision load
line marked on a ship that is the appropriate load line or subdivision
load line at any time is to be determined in accordance with the
regulations made under this Part.

Penalty for carrying passengers in excess

 102.—(1) The owner or the master of any passenger ship must not
carry or receive on board thereof, or on or in any part thereof, any
number of passengers which, having regard to the time, occasion and
circumstances of the case, is greater than the number allowed by the
passenger ship’s safety certificate, and if the owner or master does so,
the owner or master shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (2) The Director or the Port Master may detain any ship which has
contravened subsection (1) for such period until the ship complies
with the passenger ship’s safety certificate.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
63  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

Observance of collision regulations

 103.—(1) All owners, masters or persons in charge of the
navigation of vessels must obey the collision regulations and must
not carry, exhibit or use any other lights or use any other signals, than
those that are required by those regulations.

 (2) Any owner, master or person who does or suffers to be done any
act or omission contrary to any of the provisions of the collision
regulations shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

 (3) In any case before a court in Singapore concerning a
contravention of the collision regulations arising within Singapore,
foreign vessels are to be treated as if they were registered in
Singapore.

 (4) In this section, “vessel” has the meaning assigned to it in the
collision regulations.

Defect or deficiency in ship, etc.

 104.—(1) Where a material defect or deficiency affecting safety is
discovered in a Singapore ship or its equipment, whether the defect or
deficiency is due to wear and tear or to accident or to any other cause,
the owner or the master of the ship must report to the Director the
nature and extent of the defect or deficiency and the probable cause
thereof within 7 days of its discovery unless it has been reported to the
Director under section 107.

 (2) Where any material alteration is made to a Singapore ship or its
equipment or the purpose for which the ship is for the time being used
is changed, the owner or the master of the ship must report the nature
and extent of the alteration or change to the Director within 7 days of
the alteration or change.

 (3) Any owner or master of a ship who contravenes subsection (1)
or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
a fine not exceeding $10,000.

 (4) Any person who conceals or attempts to conceal or suffers to be
concealed any material defect or deficiency in the ship or its

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               64

equipment shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

Cancellation of certificate or exemption certificate

 105.—(1) The Director may cancel any certificate or exemption
certificate issued by him or her in respect of any ship if he or she has
reason to believe that the ship or its equipment or any matter to which
the certificate or exemption certificate relates no longer complies
with the regulations under which the certificate was issued or the
conditions (if any) under which the exemption certificate was issued.

 (2) Where a certificate or exemption certificate is cancelled by the
Director under subsection (1), the owner or the master of the ship to
which the certificate or exemption certificate relates must deliver the
certificate within 14 days upon being notified by the Director, and if
the owner or the master without reasonable cause, fails to do so, the
owner or the master shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

Duty of ship to assist the other in case of collision

 106.—(1) In every case of collision between 2 ships, it is the duty of
the master or, in the master’s absence, the person in charge of each
ship, if and so far as he or she can do so without danger to his or her
own ship, crew and passengers (if any) —

       (a) to render to the other ship, its master, crew and passengers
            (if any) such assistance as may be practicable, and may be
            necessary to save them from any danger caused by the
            collision, and to stay by the other ship until he or she has
            ascertained that it has no need of further assistance; and

       (b) to give to the master or person in charge of the other ship
            the name of his or her own ship and of the port to which it
            belongs, and also the names of the ports from which it
            came and to which it is bound.

 (2) If the master, without reasonable cause, fails to comply with this
section, the master shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 and if the master is a

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
65  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

certificated officer, an inquiry into his or her conduct may be held and
his or her certificate may be cancelled or suspended.

Report of accidents, etc., to Director

 107.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), where a ship —

       (a) has sustained or caused an accident occasioning loss of life
            or serious injury to a person;

       (b) has sustained an accident or received damage, or otherwise
            sustained a defect or deficiency in the ship or its equipment
            which has been discovered, and the accident, damage,
            defect or deficiency has affected, or is likely to affect the
            seaworthiness of the ship, or the efficiency or
            completeness of the lifesaving appliances or other safety
            equipment of the ship;

       (c) has been in a position of great peril, either from the action
            of some other ship or from danger of wreck or collision; or

       (d) has been stranded or wrecked,

the owner or the master of the ship must, within 24 hours of the
happening, report the happening to the Director.

                                                                                                           [25/2017]

 (2) This section does not apply to a matter required to be reported
under section 4 of the Merchant Shipping (Wreck Removal)
Act 2017.

                                                                                                           [25/2017]

 (3) Any owner or master of a ship who, without reasonable cause,
fails to comply with this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

Appointment of inspector to report on accident, etc.

 108. The Minister may appoint any person as an inspector to report
to him or her —

       (a) upon the nature and causes of any accident or damage
            which any ship has sustained or caused or is alleged to have
            sustained or caused;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               66

(b) whether the provisions of this Act or any other written law
     have been complied with; or

          (c) whether the hull, machinery and equipment of any ship are
              sufficient and in good condition.

Notification of loss of ship

 109.—(1) If —

       (a) the owner, manager or agent of a Singapore ship has reason
            to believe that the ship has been wholly lost; or

       (b) the owner, manager or agent of any other ship has reason to
            believe that the ship has been wholly lost on or near the
            coast of Singapore,

the owner, manager or agent must forthwith give written notice to the
Director stating the name of the ship, its description, official number
and the port to which it belongs and must state to the best of the
owner, master or agent’s knowledge, the probable cause of the loss.

 (2) Any owner, manager or agent who, without reasonable cause,
fails to comply with this section within a reasonable time shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000.

Owner and master liable in respect of unsafe ship

 110.—(1) If, having regard to the nature of the service for which it
is intended —

       (a) a ship in a port in Singapore; or

       (b) a Singapore ship which is in any other port,

is an unsafe ship, that is to say, is by reason of any of the matters
mentioned in subsection (2) not fit to go to sea without serious danger
to human life, then, subject to subsection (3), the master and the
owner of the ship shall each be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
67  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                                2020 Ed.

(2) The matters referred to in subsection (1) are —

    (a) the condition, or the suitability for its purpose, of —

    (i) the ship or its machinery or equipment; or

    (ii) any part of the ship or its machinery or equipment;

    (b) undermanning;

    (c) overloading or unsafe or improper loading; and

    (d) any other matter relevant to the safety of the ship.

 (3) It is a defence in proceedings for an offence under this section to
prove that at the time of the alleged offence —

    (a) arrangements had been made which were appropriate to
         ensure that before the ship went to sea it was made fit to do
         so without serious danger to human life by reason of the
         matters falling within subsection (2) which are specified in
         the charge; or

    (b) it was reasonable not to have made such arrangements.

Crew member may claim discharge if ship is unsafe

 111. If a ship is an unsafe ship, a crew member belonging to the ship
is not deemed to have committed a breach of his or her agreement by
reason of his or her having refused to sail in the ship while it is unsafe;
and any crew member so refusing may claim his or her discharge
unless the ship is made safe within a reasonable time.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

Obligation of shipowner to crew with respect to use of
reasonable efforts to secure seaworthiness

 112.—(1) In every contract of service, express or implied, between
the owner of a ship or the person employing the crew members and
any crew member thereof, there is implied, despite any agreement to
the contrary, an obligation on the owner of the ship that the owner of
the ship and the master and every agent charged with the loading of
the ship or the preparing of the ship for sea or the sending of the ship
to sea must use all reasonable means to ensure the seaworthiness of
the ship for the voyage at the time when the voyage commences, and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               68

to keep her in a seaworthy condition for the voyage during the
voyage.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

 (2) Nothing in this section —

(a) is to subject the owner of a ship to any liability by reason of
     the ship being sent to sea in an unseaworthy state where,
     owing to special circumstances, the sending of the ship to
     sea in such a state was reasonable and justifiable; or

(b) applies to any ship employed exclusively in trading or
     going from place to place in any river or inland water of
     which the whole or part thereof is in Singapore.

Detention of unsafe ship

 113.—(1) The Director may order any ship, which is an unsafe ship
or appears to him or her to be an unsafe ship, to be provisionally
detained.

 (2) When any ship has been provisionally detained, a notification of
the provisional detention of the ship must be immediately served on
the master of the ship, together with a statement of the grounds of
detention.

 (3) The Director may appoint a competent person to survey the ship
and report to him or her.

 (4) On receipt of the report, the Director may either finally detain
the ship or order its release unconditionally or on any conditions that
the Director thinks fit.

 (5) Before the order for final detention is issued, the master of the
ship must be furnished with a copy of the report and the master may,
within 7 days after receipt of the copy, appeal to the Minister.

 (6) The Minister may, upon appeal under subsection (5), order the
final detention of the ship or order its release unconditionally or
subject to any conditions that the Minister thinks fit.

 (7) When any order for the final detention of a ship has been made,
the ship must not be released until the Director or the Minister (as the
case may be) is satisfied that its further detention is no longer
necessary and orders its release.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
69  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

Owner liable for unsafe operation of ship

 114.—(1) It is the duty of the owner of a ship to which this section
applies to take all reasonable steps to secure that the ship is operated
in a safe manner.

(2) This section applies to —

    (a) any Singapore ship; or

    (b) any ship which —

    (i) is registered under the law of any country outside
        Singapore; and

    (ii) is within the seaward limits of the territorial waters
         of Singapore while proceeding to or from a port in
         Singapore, unless the ship would not be so
         proceeding but for weather conditions or any other
         unavoidable circumstances.

 (3) If the owner of a ship to which this section applies fails to
discharge the duty imposed on the owner by subsection (1), the owner
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

Conduct endangering ships, structures or individuals

 115.—(1) This section applies to any crew member employed on —

       (a) a Singapore ship; and

       (b) a ship which —

               (i) is registered under the law of any country outside
                   Singapore; and

              (ii) is in a port in Singapore or within the seaward limits
                   of the territorial waters of Singapore while
                   proceeding to or from any such port, unless the
                   ship would not be in that port, or (as the case may be)
                   would not be so proceeding, but for weather
                   conditions or any other unavoidable circumstances.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               70

 (2) If a person to whom this section applies, while on board the
person’s ship or in its immediate vicinity —

(a) does any act which causes or is likely to cause —

          (i) the loss or destruction of or serious damage to the
              person’s ship or its machinery, navigational
              equipment or safety equipment;

          (ii) the loss or destruction of or serious damage to any
               other ship or any structure; or

          (iii) the death of or serious injury to any person; or

(b) omits to do anything required —

          (i) to preserve the person’s ship or its machinery,
              navigational equipment or safety equipment, from
              loss, destruction or serious damage;

          (ii) to preserve any person on board the person’s ship
               from death or serious injury; or

          (iii) to prevent the person’s ship from causing the loss or
                destruction of or serious damage to any other ship or
                any structure, or the death of or serious injury to any
                person not on board the person’s ship,

and either of the conditions specified in subsection (3) is satisfied
with respect to that act or omission, the person shall, subject to
subsections (5) and (6), be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

(3) The conditions referred to in subsection (2) are —

(a) that the act or omission was deliberate or amounted to a
     breach or neglect of duty; and

(b) that the crew member in question was under the influence
     of drink, a drug or a psychoactive substance at the time of
     the act or omission.

                                                                                                  [6/2014]

                                                                    [Act 12 of 2023 wef 01/06/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
71  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

(4) If a person to whom this section applies —

    (a) discharges any of the person’s duties, or performs any
         other function in relation to the operation of the person’s
         ship or its machinery or equipment, in such a manner as to
         cause, or to be likely to cause, any such loss, destruction,
         death or injury as is mentioned in subsection (2)(a); or

    (b) fails to discharge any of the person’s duties, or to perform
         any such function, properly to such an extent as to cause, or
         to be likely to cause, any of those things,

the person shall, subject to subsections (5) and (6), be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

 (5) In any proceedings for an offence under this section, it is a
defence to prove —

    (a) in the case of an offence under subsection (2), where the act
         or omission alleged against the defendant constituted a
         breach or neglect of duty, that the defendant took all
         reasonable steps to discharge that duty;

    (b) in the case of an offence under subsection (4), that the
         defendant took all reasonable precautions and exercised all
         due diligence to avoid the commission of the offence; or

    (c) in the case of an offence under either of those
        subsections —

    (i) that the defendant could have avoided committing
        the offence only by disobeying a lawful command; or

    (ii) that in all the circumstances, the loss, destruction,
         damage, death or injury in question, or (as the case
         may be) the likelihood of its being caused, either
         could not reasonably have been foreseen by the
         defendant or could not reasonably have been avoided
         by the defendant.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               72

 (6) In the application of this section to any person falling within
subsection (1)(b), subsections (2) and (4) have effect as if
subsection (2)(a)(i) and (b)(i) were omitted.

(7) In this section —

“breach or neglect of duty”, except in relation to a master,
   includes any disobedience to a lawful command;

“duty” —

          (a) in relation to any crew member, means any duty
               falling to be discharged by him or her in his or her
               capacity as such; and

          (b) in relation to a master, includes the master’s duty
               with respect to the good management of his or her
               ship and his or her duty with respect to the safety of
               operation of his or her ship, its machinery and
               equipment;

“structure” means any fixed or movable structure of whatever
   description other than a ship.

                                                                   [6/2014]

Regulations for survey of ships and issue of certificates

 116.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations for the purposes of authorising any organisation for
the survey or inspection of Singapore ships and the issue of any
certificate under this Part.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may, with the
approval of the Minister, in the regulations —

       (a) specify the surveys or inspections and the issue of
            certificates or endorsements;

       (b) provide for the registration of any person belonging to or
            acting on behalf of any organisation as a surveyor for the
            purposes of surveying or inspecting Singapore ships; and

       (c) prescribe the conditions for the registration of any person
            under paragraph (b) and the cancellation of the registration
            of any person.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
73  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

 (3) Any certificate issued or endorsement made by any authorised
organisation in accordance with any regulations made under this
section is deemed to be issued or made by the Director for the
purposes of this Act.

                                    PART 6

                 INQUIRIES AND INVESTIGATIONS

Inquiry into fitness or conduct of officers

 117.—(1) If it appears to the Minister that an officer —

       (a) is unfit to discharge his or her duties, whether by reason of
            incompetence, misconduct or physical or mental disability
            or for any other reason;

       (b) has been seriously negligent in the discharge of his or her
            duties; or

       (c) has failed to comply with section 106 (duty to give
            assistance and information after collision),

the Minister may cause an inquiry to be held by one or more persons
appointed by him or her and, if the Minister does so, may, if the
Minister thinks fit, suspend, pending the outcome of the inquiry, any
certificate issued or deemed to be issued to the officer under
section 47 and require the officer to deliver it to the Minister.

 (2) Where a certificate issued to an officer has been suspended
under subsection (1), the suspension may, on the application of the
officer, be terminated by the General Division of the High Court and
the decision of the General Division of the High Court on such an
application is final.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) An inquiry under this section must be conducted in accordance
with the regulations made under section 119(3).

 (4) The persons holding an inquiry under this section into the
fitness or conduct of the officer —

       (a) may, if satisfied of any of the matters mentioned in
            subsection (1)(a), (b) and (c), cancel or suspend any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               74

          certificate issued or deemed to be issued to the officer
          under section 47 or censure the officer;

(b) may make such order with regard to the costs of the inquiry
     as they think just; and

          (c) must make a report on the case to the Minister,

and if the certificate is cancelled or suspended, the officer (unless he
or she has delivered it to the Minister pursuant to subsection (1)) must
deliver it forthwith to the persons holding the inquiry or to the
Director.

 (5) Any costs which a person is ordered to pay under
subsection (4)(b) may be recovered from the person by the Director.

Inquiries and investigations into shipping casualties

 118.—(1) Where any of the following casualties has occurred:

       (a) the loss or presumed loss, stranding, grounding,
            abandonment of or damage to a ship;

       (b) a loss of life or serious personal injury caused by fire on
            board or by an accident to a ship or ship’s boat, or by an
            accident occurring on board a ship or ship’s boat;

       (c) any damage caused by a ship,

and, at the time it occurred, the ship was registered in Singapore or the
ship or boat was in Singapore —

       (d) the Director may cause a preliminary inquiry into the
            casualty to be held by a person appointed by him or her;
            and

       (e) the Minister may (whether or not a preliminary inquiry into
            the casualty has been held) cause a formal investigation
            into the casualty to be held by a Commissioner appointed
            by him or her.

 (2) A person appointed under this section to hold a preliminary
inquiry is to for the purpose of the inquiry have the powers conferred
on an inspector by section 206.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
75  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

Formal investigations into shipping casualties

 119.—(1) A Commissioner holding a formal investigation into a
casualty under section 118 must conduct it in accordance with the
regulations made under section 121, and those regulations must
require the assistance of one or more assessors and, if any question as
to the cancellation or suspension of an officer’s certificate is likely to
arise, the assistance of not less than 2 assessors.

 (2) The Commissioner holding the formal investigation has all the
powers of a Magistrate and also has all the powers of an inspector
under this Act.

 (3) If as a result of the investigation the Commissioner is satisfied,
with respect to any officer, of any of the matters mentioned in
section 117(1)(a), (b) and (c) and, if it is a matter mentioned in
subsection (1)(a) or (b) of that section, is further satisfied that it
caused or contributed to the casualty, the Commissioner may cancel
or suspend any certificate issued or deemed to be issued to the officer
in accordance with the regulations made under section 47 or censure
him or her; and if the Commissioner cancels or suspends the
certificate, the officer must deliver the certificate forthwith to the
Commissioner or the Director.

 (4) The Commissioner may make such order as to the costs of the
investigation as the Commissioner thinks just and must make a report
on the case to the Minister.

 (5) Any costs which a person is ordered to pay under subsection (4)
may be recovered from him or her by the Director.

Re-hearing of and appeal from inquiries and investigations

 120.—(1) Where an inquiry or formal investigation has been held
under section 119, the Minister may order the whole or part of the
case to be re-heard, and must do so —

       (a) if new and important evidence which could not be
            produced at the inquiry or investigation has been
            discovered; or

       (b) if it appears to the Minister that there are other grounds for
            suspecting that a miscarriage of justice may have occurred.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               76

 (2) An order under subsection (1) may provide for the re-hearing to
be held by the persons who held the inquiry or investigation or by the
General Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) Any re-hearing under this section which is not held by the
General Division of the High Court must be conducted in accordance
with the regulations made under section 121; and section 119 applies
in relation to a re‑hearing of an investigation by a Commissioner as it
applies to the holding of an investigation.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (4) Where the persons holding the inquiry or investigation have
decided to cancel or suspend the certificate of any person or have
found any person at fault, then, if no application for an order under
subsection (1) has been made or such application has been refused,
that person or any other person who, having an interest in the inquiry
or investigation, has appeared at the hearing and is affected by the
decision or finding, may appeal to the General Division of the High
Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Regulations as to inquiries, formal investigations and appeals

 121.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations for the conduct of inquiries under section 117 and of
formal investigations under section 119 and for the conduct of any
re‑hearing under section 120 which is not held by the General
Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), regulations made under this
section may provide for the appointment and summoning of
assessors, the manner in which any facts may be proved, the
persons allowed to appear, and the notices to be given to persons
affected.

Failure to deliver cancelled or suspended certificate

 122. A person who fails to deliver a certificate as required under
section 117 or 119, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
77  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

Power to restore certificate

 123. Where a certificate has been cancelled or suspended under this
Part, the Minister may, if he or she is of the opinion that the justice of
the case requires it, order the certificate to be re-issued or (as the case
may be) reduce the period of suspension and order the certificate to be
returned, or may order a new certificate of the same or lower grade in
place of the cancelled or suspended certificate to be granted.

Payment to persons holding inquiries or investigations and
assessors

 124. The Minister may direct such remuneration (if any) to be paid
out of the Consolidated Fund to any person appointed to hold an
inquiry under section 117 or an investigation under section 119 and to
any assessor under this Part.

                                    PART 7

                          DELIVERY OF GOODS

Interpretation of this Part

 125. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “goods” includes every description of wares and merchandise;

      “owner”, in relation to goods, means every person who is for the
         time being entitled, either as owner or agent for the owner, to
         the possession of the goods, subject in the case of a lien (if
         any) to that lien;

      “shipowner” includes the master of the ship and every other
         person authorised to act as agent for the owner or entitled to
         receive the freight, demurrage or other charges payable in
         respect of the ship;

      “warehouse” includes all warehouses, buildings and premises in
         which goods, when landed from ships, may be lawfully
         placed;

      “warehouseman” means the occupier of a warehouse;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               78

“wharf” includes all wharves, quays, docks and premises in or
   upon which any goods, when landed from ships, may be
   lawfully placed;

“wharfinger” means the occupier of a wharf.

Powers of shipowner to land goods

 126.—(1) In the absence of any arrangement whereby the owner of
any goods imported in any ship into any port or place in Singapore is
entitled to land or take delivery of the goods, or in case the owner of
the goods is not ready or does not offer to land or take delivery under
such arrangement as soon as the ship is ready to unload, a shipowner
may land or unship the goods imported in any ship into Singapore at
any time after the arrival of the ship.

 (2) Where a shipowner lands goods under subsection (1), the
shipowner must place them, or cause them to be placed —

       (a) if any wharf or warehouse is named in the charter-party,
            bill of lading or agreement, as the wharf or warehouse
            where the goods are to be placed and if they can be
            conveniently there received, on that wharf or in that
            warehouse; and

       (b) in any other case, on some wharf or in some warehouse on
            or in which goods of a like nature are usually placed.

Lien for freight on landing goods

 127.—(1) If, at the time when any goods are landed from any ship
and placed in the custody of any person as a wharfinger or
warehouseman, the shipowner gives to the wharfinger or
warehouseman written notice that the goods are to remain subject
to a lien for freight or other charges payable to the shipowner to an
amount mentioned in the notice, the goods so landed shall, in the
hands of the wharfinger or warehouseman, continue subject to the
same lien, if any, for such charges as they were subject to before the
landing thereof.

 (2) The wharfinger or warehouseman receiving those goods must
retain them until the lien is discharged as hereinafter mentioned, and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
79  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

must, if the wharfinger or warehouseman fails to do so, make good to
the shipowner any loss thereby occasioned to the shipowner.

Discharge of lien

 128. The lien for freight and other charges is to be discharged —

       (a) upon the production to the wharfinger or warehouseman of
            a receipt for the amount claimed as due, and delivery to the
            wharfinger or warehouseman of a copy thereof or of a
            release of freight from the shipowner; and

       (b) upon the deposit by the owner of the goods with the
            wharfinger or warehouseman of a sum of money equal in
            amount to the sum claimed as aforesaid by the shipowner,

but in the latter case, the lien is to be discharged without affecting any
other remedy which the shipowner may have for the recovery of the
freight.

Provisions as to deposits by owners of goods

 129.—(1) When a deposit is made with the wharfinger or
warehouseman, the person making the deposit (called in this
section the depositor) may, within 15 days after making it, give to
the wharfinger or warehouseman written notice to retain it, stating in
the notice the sum (if any) which the depositor admits to be payable to
the shipowner, or (as the case may be) that the depositor does not
admit any sum to be so payable, but if no such notice is given, the
wharfinger or warehouseman may, at the end of the 15 days, pay the
sum deposited over to the shipowner.

 (2) If a notice is given under subsection (1), the wharfinger or
warehouseman must immediately apprise the shipowner of it, and
must pay or tender to the shipowner out of the sum deposited the sum
(if any) admitted by the notice to be payable, and must retain the
balance, or if no sum is admitted to be payable the whole of the sum
deposited, for 30 days from the date of the notice.

 (3) At the end of those 30 days, unless legal proceedings have in the
meantime been instituted by the shipowner against the owner of the
goods to recover the balance or sum, or otherwise for the settlement
of any dispute which may have arisen between them concerning the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               80

freight or other charges as aforesaid, and written notice of those
proceedings has been served on the wharfinger or warehouseman, the
wharfinger or warehouseman must pay the balance or sum to the
owner of the goods.

 (4) A wharfinger or warehouseman is, by any payment under this
section, discharged from all liability in respect thereof.

 (5) In this section, “legal proceedings” is deemed to include
arbitration.

Sale of goods by wharfinger and warehouseman

 130.—(1) If the lien is not discharged and no deposit is made as
aforesaid, the wharfinger or warehouseman may, and, if required by
the shipowner, must, at the end of 90 days from the time when the
goods were placed in his or her custody, or, if the goods are of a
perishable nature, at such earlier period as he or she thinks fit, sell by
public auction the goods or so much thereof as is necessary to satisfy
the charges hereinafter mentioned.

 (2) Before making the sale, the wharfinger or warehouseman
must —

       (a) give notice of the sale by advertisement in 2 newspapers
            circulating in Singapore; and

       (b) if the address of the owner of the goods has been stated on
            the manifest of the cargo or on any of the documents which
            have come into the possession of, or is otherwise known to,
            the wharfinger or warehouseman, send notice of the sale to
            the owner of the goods by post.

 (3) The title of a bona fide purchaser of the goods is not invalidated
by reason of the omission to send the notice required by this section,
nor is any such purchaser bound to inquire whether the notice has
been sent.

Application of proceeds of sale

 131.—(1) The proceeds of sale of the goods must be applied by the
wharfinger or warehouseman as follows and in the following order:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
81  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

    (a) firstly, in payment of any duties payable to the Government
         in respect thereof;

    (b) secondly, in payment of the expenses of the sale;

    (c) thirdly, in payment of the charges of the wharfinger or
        warehouseman and the shipowner according to such
        priority as is determined by the terms of the agreement
        (if any) in that behalf between them; or, if there is no such
        agreement —

    (i) in payment of the rent, rates and other charges due to
        the wharfinger or warehouseman in respect of the
        goods; and

    (ii) in payment of the amount claimed by the shipowner
         as due for freight or other charges in respect of the
         goods.

(2) The surplus (if any) must be paid to the owner of the goods.

Wharfinger’s and warehouseman’s rent and expenses

 132. Whenever any goods are placed in the custody of a wharfinger
or warehouseman under the authority of this Part, the wharfinger or
warehouseman is entitled to rent in respect of the goods, and also has
power at the expense of the owner of the goods, to do all such
reasonable acts as in the judgment of the wharfinger or
warehouseman are necessary for the proper custody and
preservation of the goods, and has a lien on the goods for the rent
and expenses.

Wharfinger’s and warehouseman’s protection

 133. Nothing in this Part compels any wharfinger or warehouseman
to take charge of any goods which the wharfinger or warehouseman
would not have been liable to take charge of if this Act had not been
enacted, nor is the wharfinger or warehouseman bound to see to the
validity of any lien claimed by any shipowner under this Part.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               82

                             PART 8

          LIABILITY OF SHIPOWNERS AND SALVORS
                       FOR MARITIME CLAIMS

Interpretation of this Part

134. In this Part —

“Convention” means the Convention on Limitation of Liability
   for Maritime Claims, 1976, as amended by the Protocol of
   1996 to Amend the Convention on Limitation of Liability for
   Maritime Claims and set out in the First Schedule;

“ship” in the Convention includes —

          (a) any air-cushion vehicle designed to operate in or over
               water while so operating; and

          (b) any structure (whether completed or in the course of
               completion) launched and intended for use in
               navigation as a ship or part of a ship.

                                                                                       [56/2004; 3/2019]

Exclusion of liability

 135.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), the owner of a Singapore ship
is not liable for any loss or damage —

       (a) where any property on board the ship is lost or damaged by
            reason of fire on board the ship; or

       (b) where any gold, silver, watches, jewels or precious stones
            on board the ship are lost or damaged by reason of theft,
            robbery or other dishonest conduct and their nature and
            value were not at the time of shipment declared by their
            owner or shipper to the owner or master of the ship in the
            bill of lading or otherwise in writing.

                                                                                                           [56/2004]

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), where the loss or damage arises from
anything done or omitted by any person in his or her capacity as
master or member of the crew or (otherwise than in that capacity) in
the course of his or her employment as a servant of the owner of the
ship, subsection (1) also excludes the liability of —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
83  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

    (a) the master, member of the crew or servant; and

       (b) in a case where the master or member of the crew is the
            servant of a person whose liability would not be excluded
            by that subsection apart from this paragraph, the person
            whose servant he or she is.

                                                                                                           [56/2004]

 (3) This section does not exclude the liability of any person for any
loss or damage resulting from any such personal act or omission of
the person as is mentioned in Article 4 of the Convention.

                                                                                                           [56/2004]

 (4) In this section, “owner”, in relation to a ship, includes any part
owner and any charterer, manager or operator of the ship.

                                                                                                           [56/2004]

Limitation of liability for maritime claims

 136.—(1) Subject to this Part, the provisions of the Convention,
other than paragraph 1(d) and (e) of Article 2 of the Convention, have
the force of law in Singapore.

                                                                                                           [56/2004]

 (2) In paragraph 2 of Article 2 of the Convention —

       (a) the reference to paragraph 1 is a reference to
            paragraph 1(a), (b), (c) and (f) of that Article; and

       (b) the reference to paragraph 1(d), (e) and (f) is a reference to
            paragraph 1(f) of that Article.

                                                                                                             [3/2019]

 (3) For the purposes of paragraph 3 of Article 6 of the Convention, a
claim in respect of damage to harbour works, basins, waterways or
aids to navigation has priority over any other claim under
paragraph 1(b) of that Article.

                                                                                                           [56/2004]

 (4) Despite paragraph 2 of Article 1 of the Convention, the right to
limit liability under the Convention applies in relation to any ship
whether seagoing or not, and “shipowner” in that paragraph has a
corresponding meaning.

                                                                                                           [56/2004]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.        Merchant Shipping Act 1995                         84

General limits

137.—(1) In the application of Article 6 of the Convention —

(a) to a ship licensed as a harbour craft under the Maritime and
     Port Authority of Singapore Act 1996, that Article has
     effect as if the aggregate of the amounts in
     paragraph 1(a)(i) and (b)(i) referred to the sum insured
     under the policy of insurance for the time being required by
     the Port Master under that Act to be in force in relation to
     that harbour craft in respect of third party risks; and

(b) to any other ship with a tonnage less than 300 tons, that
     Article has effect as if —

          (i) paragraph 1(a)(i) referred to 166,667 Units of
              Account; and

              (ii) paragraph 1(b)(i) referred to 83,333 Units of
                   Account.

                                                                                                           [56/2004]

 (2) For the purposes of Article 6 of the Convention and
subsection (1)(b), a ship’s tonnage is its gross tonnage calculated in
such manner as may be prescribed by an order made by the Minister.

                                                                                                           [56/2004]

 (3) Any order under this section must, so far as appears to the
Minister to be practicable, give effect to the regulations in Annex I of
the International Convention on Tonnage Measurement of Ships,
1969.

                                                                                                           [56/2004]

Limit for passenger claims

 138. In the case of a passenger ship within the meaning of Part 5,
the ship’s certificate mentioned in paragraph 1 of Article 7 of the
Convention is the passenger ship’s certificate issued under or
recognised by regulations made under section 100.

                                                                                                           [56/2004]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
85  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

Constitution and distribution of fund

 139.—(1) The Authority may, from time to time, by order prescribe
the rate of interest to be applied for the purposes of paragraph 1 of
Article 11 of the Convention.

                                                                                                           [56/2004]

 (2) Where a fund is constituted with the General Division of the
High Court in accordance with Article 11 of the Convention for the
payment of claims arising out of any occurrence, the General
Division of the High Court may stay any proceedings relating to any
claim arising out of that occurrence which are pending against the
person by whom the fund has been constituted.

                                                                                                [56/2004; 40/2019]

 (3) No lien or other right in respect of any ship or property is to
affect the proportions in which under Article 12 of the Convention the
fund is distributed among several claimants.

                                                                                                           [56/2004]

Bar to other actions

 140. Where the release of a ship or other property is ordered under
paragraph 2 of Article 13 of the Convention, the person on whose
application it is ordered to be released is deemed to have submitted to
the jurisdiction of the General Division of the High Court to
adjudicate on the claim for which the ship or property was arrested or
attached.

                                                                                                [56/2004; 40/2019]

Meaning of “State Party”

 141. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, declare that any
State specified in the order is, or was at a date specified in the order, a
party to the Convention in respect of a particular country, and any
such order is conclusive evidence that that State is, while the order
remains in force, or was at that date, a party to the Convention in
respect of that country.

                                                                                                           [56/2004]

Units of Account

 142.—(1) For the purposes of Article 6 of the Convention, the
Authority may certify the respective amounts in Singapore dollar

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               86

which are to be taken as equivalent for a particular day to the sums
expressed in special drawing rights in that Article.

                                                                                                           [56/2004]

 (2) A certificate given by the Authority under subsection (1) is
conclusive evidence of the matters referred to in that subsection for
the purposes of that Article; and a document purporting to be such a
certificate must, in any proceedings, be received in evidence and,
unless the contrary is proved, be deemed to be such a certificate.

                                                                                                           [56/2004]

 (3) The Authority may charge any fee that it may determine for any
certificate given by it under this section.

                                                                                                           [56/2004]

Amendment of First Schedule

 143. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend the First
Schedule in accordance with any revision to the Convention or to any
protocol to the Convention which may apply to Singapore from time
to time.

                                                                                                 [56/2004; 3/2019]

Saving

 144.—(1) Nothing in section 5(a) or 16(b) or (c) of the Merchant
Shipping (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2019 applies in relation
to any liability arising out of an occurrence which took place before
29 December 2019, and this Act as in force immediately before that
date continues to apply in relation to such an occurrence as if that
provision had not been enacted.

                                                                                                             [3/2019]

 (2) Nothing in section 16(a) of the Merchant Shipping
(Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2019 applies in relation to any
liability arising out of an occurrence which took place before 24 July
2021, and this Act as in force immediately before that date continues
to apply in relation to such an occurrence as if that provision had not
been enacted.

                                                                                                             [3/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
87  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

                             PART 9

    WRECK AND SALVAGE

Interpretation of this Part

145. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

    “inland waters of Singapore” means any stream, reservoir,
       waterway, lake or pond (whether natural or artificial) within
       the limits of the territorial waters of Singapore, but
       excludes —

    (a) any waters within the ebb and flow of the tide; and

    (b) any place, navigable river or waters declared to be a
         port by the Minister under section 3(1) of the
         Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore Act 1996;

    “Public Utilities Board” means the Public Utilities Board
       continued under section 3 of the Public Utilities Act 2001;

    “receiver” means a receiver of wreck;

    “reservoir” means a body of water maintained as a reservoir by
       the Public Utilities Board in the following areas as defined in
       regulations made under section 72 of the Public Utilities
       Act 2001:

    (a) a Catchment Area Park;

    (b) the Central Water Catchment Area;

    “salvage” includes all expenses properly incurred by the salvor
       in the performance of salvage services;

    “Salvage Convention” means the International Convention on
       Salvage, 1989, as set out in the Second Schedule;

    “waterway” has the meaning given by section 2 of the Public
       Utilities Act 2001;

    “wreck” includes jetsam, flotsam, lagan and derelict found in or
       on the shores of the sea or any tidal water.

                                                                                                        [3/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               88

Salvage Convention to have force of law

 145A.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the provisions of the Salvage
Convention have the force of law.

                                                                                                             [3/2019]

 (2) The provisions of the Salvage Convention do not apply to —

(a) any salvage operation that takes place in inland waters of
     Singapore, and in which either no ship is involved or all the
     ships involved navigate in inland waters (whether of
     Singapore or otherwise); or

       (b) any salvage operation in which the property involved is
            maritime cultural property of prehistoric, archaeological or
            historic importance, and is situated on the seabed.

                                                                                                             [3/2019]

 (3) Nothing in subsection (1) affects any rights or liabilities arising
out of any salvage operations started or other acts done before 24 July
2021.

                                                                                                             [3/2019]

 (4) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend the Second
Schedule in accordance with any revision to the Salvage Convention
or any protocol to the Salvage Convention which may apply to
Singapore from time to time.

                                                                                                             [3/2019]

Receiver of wrecks

 146.—(1) The Authority has the general supervision throughout
Singapore over all matters relating to wrecks and may appoint any
person to be a receiver of wreck and to perform the duties of a
receiver under this Part.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (2) An appointment under subsection (1) must be published in the
Gazette.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

Duty of receiver in respect of ship in distress

 147.—(1) Where any ship is wrecked, stranded or in distress at any
place on or near the coasts of Singapore or any tidal water within the
limits of Singapore, the receiver must, upon being made acquainted

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
89  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

with the circumstances, forthwith proceed there, and upon his or her
arrival must take the command of all persons present and must assign
such duties and give such directions to each person as he or she thinks
fit for the preservation of the ship and of the lives of the persons
belonging to the ship (called in this Part shipwrecked persons) and of
the cargo and apparel of the ship.

 (2) Any person who wilfully disobeys any direction of the receiver
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000, but the receiver must not interfere between the
master and the crew of the ship in reference to the management
thereof unless he or she is requested to do so by the master.

Powers of receiver in case of ships in distress

 148.—(1) The receiver may, with a view to the preservation under
section 147 of shipwrecked persons or of the ship, cargo or apparel —

       (a) require any persons that the receiver thinks necessary to
            assist him or her;

       (b) require the master or other person having the charge of any
            ship near at hand to give any aid with his or her men or ship
            that is in his or her power; and

       (c) demand the use of any vehicle that may be near at hand.

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable cause, refuses to comply
with any such requisition or demand shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

Power to pass over adjoining lands

 149.—(1) Whenever a ship is wrecked, stranded or in distress as
aforesaid, all persons may, for the purpose of rendering assistance to
the ship, or of saving the lives of the shipwrecked persons, or of
saving the cargo or apparel of the ship, unless there is some public
road equally convenient, pass and repass, over any adjoining lands
without being subject to interruption by the owner or occupier, so that
they do as little damage as possible, and may also on the like
condition, deposit on those lands any cargo or other article recovered
from the ship.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               90

 (2) Any damage sustained by an owner or occupier in consequence
of the exercise of the rights given by this section is to be a charge on
the ship, cargo or articles, in respect of or by which the damage is
occasioned, and the amount payable in respect of the damage is to, in
case of dispute, be determined and is, in default of payment,
recoverable in the same manner as the amount of salvage is under this
Part determined or recoverable.

(3) Any owner or occupier of any land who —

(a) impedes or hinders any person in the exercise of the rights
     given by this section by locking the owner or occupier’s
     gates, or refusing upon request to open the same, or
     otherwise;

(b) impedes or hinders the deposit of any cargo or other article
     recovered from the ship as aforesaid on the land; or

          (c) prevents or endeavours to prevent any such cargo or other
              article from remaining deposited on the land for a
              reasonable time until the cargo or article can be removed
              to a safe place of public deposit,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000.

Power of receiver to suppress plunder and disorder by force

 150.—(1) Whenever a ship is wrecked, stranded or in distress as
aforesaid, and any person plunders, creates disorder or obstructs the
preservation of the ship or of the shipwrecked persons or of the cargo
or apparel of the ship, the receiver may cause that person to be
apprehended.

 (2) The receiver may use force for the suppression of any such
plundering, disorder or obstruction, and may command all persons to
assist him or her in so using force.

Exercise of powers of receiver in his or her absence

 151.—(1) Where a receiver is not present, the following officers or
persons in succession, each in the absence of the other, in the order in
which they are named, namely, superintendent or assistant

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
91  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

superintendent of police, Magistrate, Justice of the Peace, or
commissioned officer on full pay in the Singapore Armed Forces,
may do anything by this Part authorised to be done by the receiver.

 (2) An officer acting under this section for a receiver is to, with
respect to any goods or articles belonging to a ship the delivery of
which to the receiver is required by this Act, be considered as the
agent of the receiver, and must place the goods or articles in the
custody of the receiver, but the officer is not entitled to any fees
payable to receivers or to be deprived by reason of his or her so acting
of any right to salvage to which he or she would otherwise be entitled.

Examination in respect of ships in distress

 152.—(1) Where any ship is or has been in distress on the coasts of
Singapore, a receiver of wreck or in his or her absence a Magistrate or
a Justice of the Peace must, as soon as conveniently may be, examine
on oath any person belonging to the ship, or any other person who is
able to give any account thereof or of the cargo or stores thereof, as to
the following matters:

       (a) the name and description of the ship;

       (b) the names of the master and the owner;

       (c) the names of the owners of the cargo;

       (d) the ports from and to which the ship was bound;

       (e) the occasion of the distress of the ship;

        (f) the services rendered;

       (g) any other matters or circumstances relating to the ship or to
            the cargo on board the ship that the person holding the
            examination thinks necessary.

 (2) The person holding the examination must take the examination
down in writing, and must send one copy thereof to the Authority, and
another to the office of the Port Master, where the copy must be
placed in some conspicuous place for the inspection of persons
desirous of examining it.

 (3) The person holding the examination is to for the purposes
thereof have all the powers of an inspector under this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               92

Rules to be observed by persons finding wreck

 153.—(1) Where any person finds or takes possession of any wreck
within the limits of Singapore or of any wreck found or taken
possession of outside the limits of Singapore and brought within the
limits of Singapore, the person must —

(a) if the person is the owner thereof, give notice to the
     receiver stating that the person has found or taken
     possession of the wreck, and describing the marks by
     which the wreck may be recognised; or

(b) if the person is not the owner thereof, as soon as possible
     deliver the wreck to the receiver.

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable cause, fails to comply with
this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000, and shall, in addition, if the
person is not the owner, forfeit any claim to salvage, and shall be
liable to pay to the owner of the wreck if it is claimed, or if it is
unclaimed to the person entitled to the wreck, double the value
thereof, to be recovered in the same way as a fine of a like amount
under this Act.

Penalty for taking wreck at time of casualty

 154.—(1) Where a ship is wrecked, stranded or in distress at any
place on or near the coasts of Singapore, or any tidal water within the
limits of Singapore, any cargo or other articles belonging to or
separated from the ship which are washed on shore or otherwise lost
or taken from the ship must be delivered to the receiver.

 (2) Any person, whether the owner or not, who secretes or keeps
possession of any such cargo or article, or refuses to deliver the cargo
or article to the receiver or any person authorised by the receiver to
demand the cargo or article, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

 (3) The receiver or any person authorised as aforesaid may take any
such cargo or article by force from the person so refusing to deliver
the cargo or article.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
93  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

Notice of wreck to be given by receiver

 155. Where a receiver takes possession of any wreck, the receiver
must within 48 hours cause to be posted at the office of the Port
Master, and, if the receiver thinks it desirable, the receiver must send
to the secretary of Lloyd’s in London, a description thereof and of any
marks by which it is distinguished.

Claims of owners to wreck

 156.—(1) The owner of any wreck in the possession of the receiver,
upon establishing the owner’s claim to the wreck to the satisfaction of
the receiver within one month from the time at which the wreck came
into the possession of the receiver, is entitled, upon paying the
salvage fees and expenses due, to have the wreck or the proceeds
thereof delivered up to the owner.

 (2) Where any articles belonging to or forming part of a foreign ship
which has been wrecked on or near the coasts of Singapore, or
belonging to and forming part of the cargo, are found on or near those
coasts or are brought into any port in Singapore, the consular officer
of the country to which the ship or, in the case of cargo, to which the
owners of the cargo may have belonged is to, in the absence of the
owner and the master or other agent of the owner, be deemed to be the
agent of the owner, so far as relates to the custody and disposal of the
articles.

 (3) Where any foreign ship is wrecked on or near the coasts of
Singapore, the consular officer of the country to which the ship may
have belonged is to, in the absence of the owner and the master or
other agent of the owner, be deemed to be the agent of the owner, so
far as relates to the custody and disposal of the wrecked ship.

                                                                                                             [8/2005]

Immediate sale of wreck by receiver in certain cases

 157.—(1) A receiver may at any time sell any wreck in his or her
custody, if in his or her opinion —

       (a) it is under the value of $1,000;

       (b) it is so much damaged or of so perishable a nature that it
            cannot with advantage be kept; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                                 94

          (c) it is not of sufficient value to pay for warehousing.

 (2) The proceeds of the sale must, after defraying the expenses
thereof, be held by the receiver for the same purposes and subject to
the same claims, rights and liabilities as if the wreck had remained
unsold.

Right of Government to unclaimed wreck

 158. The Government is entitled to all unclaimed wreck found in
any part of Singapore except in places where the Government has
granted to any person the right to the wreck.

Unclaimed wreck

 159.—(1) Where no owner establishes a claim to any wreck found
in Singapore or to any wreck found or taken possession of outside
Singapore and brought within Singapore and in the possession of a
receiver within one month after it came into his or her possession, the
receiver must sell the wreck, and must pay the proceeds of the sale
into the Consolidated Fund, after deducting therefrom the expenses of
the sale and any other expenses incurred by him or her and his or her
fees and paying there out to the salvors such amount of salvage as the
Minister in each case or by any general rule determines.

 (2) Nothing in this section alters the application of any droits of
admiralty or droits of the Government.

Delivery of unclaimed wreck by receiver not to affect title

 160. Upon delivery of the wreck or payment of the proceeds of sale
of the wreck by a receiver under this Part, the receiver is discharged
from all liability in respect thereof, but the delivery thereof does not
prejudice or affect any question which is raised by third parties
concerning the right or title to the wreck.

Removal of wreck by receiver

 161.—(1) Where any ship is sunk, stranded or abandoned within
the territorial waters of Singapore but outside the limits of any port in
such a manner as, in the opinion of the receiver, to be or to be likely to
become an obstruction or danger to navigation, the receiver may —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
95  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

    (a) take possession of, and raise, remove or destroy the whole
         or any part of, the ship;

    (b) light or buoy any such ship or part until the raising,
         removal or destruction thereof; and

    (c) sell, in such manner as the receiver thinks fit, any ship or
        part so raised or removed, and also any other property
        recovered in the exercise of his or her powers under this
        section, and out of the proceeds of the sale reimburse
        himself or herself for the expenses incurred by him or her
        in relation thereto under this section, and the receiver must
        hold the surplus (if any) of the proceeds in trust for the
        persons entitled thereto.

 (2) A sale must not, except in the case of any property which is of a
perishable nature, or which would deteriorate in value by delay, be
made under this section until at least 7 clear days’ notice of the
intended sale has been given by advertisement in a newspaper
circulating in Singapore.

 (3) At any time before any property is sold under this section, the
owner thereof is entitled to have the property delivered to the owner
on payment to the receiver of the fair market value thereof, to be
ascertained by agreement between the receiver and the owner, or
failing agreement, by some person to be named for the purpose by the
Authority.

 (4) The sum paid to the receiver as the value of any property under
this section is deemed to be the proceeds of sale of that property.

Powers of removal extend to tackle, cargo, etc.

 162. The provisions of this Part relating to removal of wrecks apply
to every article or thing or collection of things being or forming part
of the tackle, equipment, cargo, stores or ballast of a ship in the same
manner as if it were included in the term “ship”, and for the purposes
of those provisions any proceeds of sale arising from a ship and from
the cargo thereof, or any other property recovered therefrom, are
regarded as a common fund.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               96

Taking wreck to foreign port

 163. Any person who takes into any foreign port any ship, stranded,
derelict or otherwise in distress found on or near the coasts of
Singapore, or any tidal water within the limits of Singapore, or any
part of the cargo or apparel thereof or anything belonging thereto, or
any wreck found within those limits, and there sells the same, shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
5 years or to both.

Interfering with wrecked ship or wreck

 164.—(1) A person must not, without the leave of the master, board
or endeavour to board any ship which is wrecked, stranded or in
distress, unless the person is, or acts by command of, the receiver or a
person lawfully acting as such.

 (2) Any person who acts in contravention of subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $2,000 and the master of the ship may repel him or her by
force.

 (3) A person must not —

       (a) impede or hinder, or endeavour in any way to impede or
            hinder, the saving of any ship stranded or in danger of
            being stranded, or otherwise in distress on or near any coast
            or tidal water, or of any part of the cargo or apparel thereof
            or of any wreck;

       (b) secrete any wreck, or deface or obliterate any marks
            thereon; or

       (c) wrongfully carry away or remove any part of a ship
            stranded or in danger of being stranded, or otherwise in
            distress on or near any coast or tidal water, or any part of
            the cargo or apparel thereof or any wreck.

 (4) Any person who acts in contravention of subsection (3) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $2,000, and such fine may be imposed in addition to any

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
97  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

punishment to which the person may be liable by law under this Act
or otherwise.

Summary procedure for concealment of wreck

 165.—(1) Where a receiver suspects or receives information that
any wreck is secreted or in the possession of some person who is not
the owner thereof or that any wreck is otherwise improperly dealt
with, the receiver may apply to a Magistrate’s Court for a search
warrant.

 (2) The Magistrate’s Court may grant the search warrant, and the
receiver, by virtue thereof, may enter any house or other place
wherever situate and also any ship and search for, seize and detain
any such wreck found therein.

 (3) If any such seizure of wreck is made in consequence of
information given by any person to the receiver, the informer is
entitled, by way of salvage, to such sum as the receiver allows.

Recourse for life salvage payment

 166.—(1) This section applies where —

       (a) services are rendered wholly or in part within Singapore in
            saving life from any ship or elsewhere in saving life from
            any Singapore ship; and

       (b) the ship and other property are destroyed, or the sum to
            which the salvor is entitled under paragraph 2 of Article 16
            of the Salvage Convention is less than a reasonable sum for
            the services rendered in saving life.

                                                                                                             [3/2019]

 (2) Where this section applies, the Minister may pay to the salvor
out of the Consolidated Fund such sum or additional sum as the
Minister thinks fit for the services rendered in saving life.

                                                                                                             [3/2019]

Salvage of cargo or wreck

 167.—(1) Where any ship is wrecked, stranded or in distress at any
place on or near the coasts of Singapore, or in any tidal water within
the limits of Singapore, and services are rendered by any person in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               98

assisting that ship or saving the cargo or apparel of that ship or any
part thereof, and where services are rendered by any person other than
a receiver in saving any wreck, there is payable to the salvor by the
owner of the ship, cargo, apparel or wreck, a reasonable amount of
salvage to be determined in case of dispute in the manner hereinafter
mentioned.

                                                                                                             [3/2019]

 (2) The right of a salvor to a reasonable amount of salvage under
subsection (1) is subject to paragraph 2 of Article 12, and Articles 17,
18 and 19, of the Salvage Convention.

                                                                                                             [3/2019]

Determination of salvage disputes

 168.—(1) Disputes as to the amount of salvage, whether of life or
property and whether rendered within or without Singapore, arising
between the salvor and the owners of any ship, cargo, apparel or
wreck, if not settled by agreement, arbitration or otherwise, are to be
determined summarily by a District Court in any case where —

       (a) the parties to the dispute consent;

       (b) the value of the property saved does not exceed $50,000;
            and

       (c) the amount claimed does not exceed $50,000.

 (2) Subject to subsection (1), disputes as to salvage are to be
determined by the General Division of the High Court, but if the
claimant does not recover in the General Division of the High Court
more than $50,000, the claimant is not entitled to recover any costs,
charges or expenses incurred by the claimant in the prosecution of the
claim unless the General Division of the High Court certifies that the
case is a fit one to be tried by the General Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) Disputes relating to salvage may be determined on the
application either of the salvor or of the owner of the property
saved or of their respective agents.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
99  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

Determination of disputes as to salvage summarily

 169. A District Court may, for the purpose of determining a dispute
as to salvage, call in to its assistance any person conversant with
maritime affairs as assessor, and there is to be paid as part of the costs
of the proceedings to every such assessor in respect of his or her
services any sum that the Authority directs.

Appeal in case of salvage disputes

 170. Where a dispute relating to salvage has been determined by a
District Court, any party aggrieved by the decision may appeal
therefrom in accordance with the Rules of Court to the General
Division of the High Court, but no such appeal is to be allowed unless
the sum in dispute exceeds $2,000.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Valuation of property by receiver

 171.—(1) Where any dispute as to salvage arises, the receiver may,
on the application of either party, appoint a valuer to value the
property, and must give copies of the valuation to both parties.

 (2) Any copy of the valuation purporting to be signed by the valuer,
and to be certified as a true copy by the receiver, is admissible as
evidence in any subsequent proceedings.

 (3) Any fee that the Authority directs is to be paid in respect of the
valuation by the person applying for the valuation.

Detention of property liable to salvage by receiver

 172.—(1) Where salvage is due to any person under this Act, the
receiver must —

       (a) if the salvage is due in respect of services rendered in
            assisting any ship, or in saving life therefrom, or in saving
            the cargo or apparel thereof, detain the ship and cargo or
            apparel; and

       (b) if the salvage is due in respect of the saving of any wreck,
            and the wreck is not sold as unclaimed under this Act,
            detain the wreck.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               100

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the receiver must detain the ship and
the cargo and apparel, or the wreck (called in this Act detained
property), until payment is made for salvage or process is issued for
the arrest or detention thereof by the General Division of the High
Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) A receiver may release any detained property if security is given
to his or her satisfaction or, if the claim for salvage exceeds $1,000
and any question is raised as to the sufficiency of the security, to the
satisfaction of the General Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                      [S 1018/2020]

 (4) Any security given for salvage under this section to an amount
exceeding $1,000 may be enforced by the General Division of the
High Court in the same manner as if bail had been given in the
General Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Sale of detained property

 173.—(1) The receiver may sell any detained property if the
persons liable to pay the salvage in respect of which the property is
detained are aware of the detention in the following cases:

       (a) where the amount is not disputed and payment of the
            amount due is not made within 20 days after the amount is
            due;

       (b) where the amount is disputed but no appeal lies, and
            payment is not made within 20 days after the decision of
            the General Division of the High Court;

       (c) where the amount is disputed and an appeal lies from the
            decision of the General Division of the High Court, and
            within 20 days of the decision neither payment of the sum
            due is made nor have any proceedings been taken for the
            purpose of appeal.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) The proceeds of sale of the detained property are to, after
payment of the expenses of the sale, be applied by the receiver in
payment of the expenses, fees and salvage and, so far as not required

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
101  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

for that purpose, are to be paid to the owners of the property or any
other persons entitled to receive the proceeds.

Apportionment of salvage by receiver

 174.—(1) Where the aggregate amount of salvage payable in
respect of salvage services rendered in Singapore has been finally
determined, either summarily in the manner provided by this Act or
by agreement, and does not exceed $1,000, but a dispute arises as to
the apportionment thereof among several claimants, the person liable
to pay the amount may apply to the receiver for liberty to pay the
amount to the receiver.

 (2) The receiver must, if the receiver thinks fit, receive the amount
accordingly, and must grant to the person paying the amount a
certificate of the amount paid and of the services in respect of which it
is paid, and that certificate is a full discharge and indemnity to the
person by whom the money is paid and to the person’s ship, cargo,
apparel and effects against the claims of all persons whomsoever in
respect of the services mentioned in the certificate.

 (3) The receiver must as soon as practicable distribute any amount
received by him or her under this section among the persons entitled
to the money on such evidence and in such shares and proportions as
the receiver thinks fit, and may retain any money which appears to
him or her to be payable to any person who is absent.

 (4) Any apportionment of the amount of salvage by the receiver
under this section must be made in accordance with Article 15 of the
Salvage Convention.

                                                                                                             [3/2019]

 (5) A distribution made by the receiver under this section is final
and conclusive as against all persons claiming to be entitled to any
portion of the amount distributed.

Appointment of salvage by General Division of High Court

 175.—(1) Whenever the aggregate amount of salvage payable in
respect of salvage service rendered in Singapore has been finally
ascertained and exceeds $1,000 or whenever the aggregate amount of
salvage payable in respect of salvage services rendered elsewhere has

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               102

been finally ascertained, whatever that amount may be, then, if any
delay or dispute arises as to the apportionment thereof, the General
Division of the High Court may —

(a) cause the amount to be apportioned among the persons
     entitled thereto in any manner that the General Division of
     the High Court thinks just, and may for that purpose, if the
     General Division of the High Court thinks fit, appoint any
     person to carry that apportionment into effect;

(b) compel any person in whose hands or under whose control
     the amount may be to distribute the amount or to bring the
     amount into court to be there dealt with as the General
     Division of the High Court directs; and

       (c) for the purposes aforesaid, issue any processes that the
            General Division of the High Court thinks fit.

                                                                                                 [3/2019; 40/2019]

 (2) Any apportionment of the amount of salvage by the General
Division of the High Court under this section must be made in
accordance with Article 15 of the Salvage Convention.

                                                                                                 [3/2019; 40/2019]

 176. [Repealed by Act 27 of 2020]

Receiver’s fees

 177.—(1) There is to be paid to every receiver the expenses
properly incurred by him or her in the performance of his or her
duties, and any fees that may be directed by the Authority in respect
of such matters as the Authority may, by notification in the Gazette,
specify; but the receiver is not entitled to any remuneration other than
those payments.

 (2) The receiver, in addition to all other rights and remedies for the
recovery of those expenses or fees, has the same rights and remedies
in respect thereof as a salvor has in respect of salvage due to him or
her.

 (3) Whenever any dispute arises as to the amount payable to any
receiver in respect of expenses or fees, that dispute is to be
determined by the Authority whose decision is final.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
103  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

 (4) All fees received by a receiver in respect of services performed
by him or her as receiver must be accounted for to the Authority and
must form part of the funds of the Authority.

                                   PART 10

                         LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Provision as to jurisdiction in case of offences

 178. For the purpose of giving jurisdiction under this Act, every
offence is deemed to have been committed, and every cause of
complaint to have arisen, either in the place in which the offence
actually was committed or arose or in any place in which the offender
or person complained against may be.

Jurisdiction over ships lying off coast

 179. Where any place within which any court has jurisdiction either
under this Act or any other written law or at common law for any
purpose whatever is situate on the coast of any sea, or abutting on or
projecting into any bay, channel, lake, river or other navigable water,
every such court has jurisdiction over any ship being on, or lying or
passing off, that coast or being in or near that bay, channel, lake, river
or navigable water and over all persons on board that ship or for the
time being belonging thereto, in the same manner as if the ship or
persons were within the limits of the original jurisdiction of the court.

Jurisdiction in case of offences on board ship

 180. Where any person is charged with having committed any
offence on board any Singapore ship on the high seas or elsewhere
outside Singapore or on board any foreign ship to which the person
does not belong and that person is found within the jurisdiction of any
court in Singapore which would have had cognizance of the offence if
it had been committed on board a Singapore ship within the limits of
its ordinary jurisdiction, that court has jurisdiction to try the offence
as if it had been so committed.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               104

Presumption of jurisdiction

 181. Where, in any legal proceedings under this Act, a question
arises whether or not any ship or person is or is not within the
provisions of this Act or some part thereof, the ship or person is
presumed to be within those provisions unless the contrary is proved.

Court for trial of offences

 182. Unless the context otherwise requires, any offence under this
Act may be tried by a District Court or a Magistrate’s Court and such
Court, despite the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010
and any other written law, has jurisdiction to impose the maximum
penalty provided for by this Act.

Sums ordered to be paid leviable by distress on ship

 183. Where any court has power to make an order directing
payment to be made of any crew member’s wages, fines or other sums
of money, then, if the party so directed to pay the same is the person
employing the crew member, or the owner of a ship, and the same is
not paid at the time and in the manner prescribed in the order, the
court which made the order may, in addition to payment, direct the
amount remaining unpaid to be levied by distress and sale of the ship
and its equipment.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

Depositions to be received in evidence when witness cannot be
produced

 184.—(1) Whenever in the course of any legal proceedings
instituted before any court, or before any person authorised by law
or by consent of parties to receive evidence, the testimony of any
witness is required in relation to the subject matter of that
proceedings, then upon due proof that the witness cannot be found
in Singapore, any deposition that the witness has previously made on
oath in relation to the same subject matter before any judge,
magistrate or any consular officer elsewhere is admissible in
evidence subject to the following provisions:

       (a) if the deposition was made in Singapore, it is not
            admissible in any proceedings instituted in Singapore;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
105  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

     (b) if the proceedings is criminal, it is not admissible unless it
          was made in the presence of the person accused.

 (2) A deposition so made must be authenticated by the signature of
the judge, magistrate or consular officer before whom it is made; and
the judge, magistrate or consular officer is to certify, if the fact is so,
that the accused was present at the taking thereof.

 (3) A deposition so made is deemed to be duly authenticated if it
purports to be signed by the judge, magistrate or consular officer
before whom it is made.

 (4) It is not necessary in any case to prove the signature or official
character of the person appearing to have signed any such deposition,
and in any criminal proceedings a certificate under this section is,
unless the contrary is proved, sufficient evidence of the accused
having been present in the manner thereby certified.

 (5) Nothing herein affects any case in which depositions taken in
any proceedings are rendered admissible in evidence by any written
law or interfere with the practice of any court in which depositions
not authenticated as hereinbefore mentioned are admissible.

Proof of attestation not required

 185. Where any document is required by this Act to be executed in
the presence of or to be attested by any witness, that document may be
proved by the evidence of any person who is able to bear witness to
the requisite facts without calling the attesting witness.

Admissibility of documents in evidence

 186.—(1) The following documents are admissible in evidence:

       (a) any register under Part 2 on its production from the custody
            of the Registrar or other person having lawful custody
            thereof;

       (b) a certificate of registry under Part 2 purporting to be signed
            by the Registrar;

       (c) any amendment to a certificate of registry purporting to be
            signed by the Registrar;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               106

(d) every declaration made pursuant to Part 2 in respect of a
     Singapore ship;

          (e) a certificate issued or deemed to be issued in accordance
              with regulations made under section 47;

          (f) crew agreements and copies of entries given under Part 4
              of additions to or changes in crew agreements;

(g) documents purporting to be submissions to or decisions by
     the Director under section 59;

(h) the official logbook kept under section 89 and, without
     affecting subsection (3), any document purporting to be a
     copy of an entry therein and to be certified as a true copy by
     the master of the ship;

          (i) returns or reports made under section 91.

 (2) The documents mentioned in subsection (1) are, on their
production from the proper custody, admissible in evidence in any
court or before any person having by law or consent of parties
authority to receive evidence, and, subject to all just exceptions, are
evidence of the matters stated therein pursuant to this Act or by any
officer pursuant to his or her duties as such officer.

 (3) A copy of any such document or extract therefrom is also so
admissible in evidence, if proved to be an examined copy or extract,
or if it purports to be signed and certified as a true copy or extract by
the officer to whose custody the original document was entrusted, and
that officer must furnish such certified copy or extract to any person
applying at a reasonable time for the certified copy or extract, upon
payment of any fee that may be prescribed.

Service of documents

 187.—(1) Where for the purposes of this Act, any document is to be
served on any person, that document may be served —

       (a) in any case by delivering a copy thereof personally to the
            person to be served, or by leaving the copy at the person’s
            last known place of abode;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
107  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

     (b) if the document is to be served on the master of a ship,
          where there is one, or on a person belonging to a ship, by
          leaving the document for him or her on board that ship with
          the person being or appearing to be in command or charge
          of the ship; and

     (c) if the document is to be served on the master of a ship,
         where there is no master, and the ship is in Singapore, on
         the operator of the ship, or on some agent of the owner
         residing in Singapore, or by affixing a copy thereof at the
         means of access to the ship, or in any place on board the
         ship which appears to be frequented by people.

 (2) Any person who obstructs the service on the master of a ship of
any document under section 113 (relating to the detention of ships as
unsafe ships) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction for each offence to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

 (3) Any owner or master of the ship who is party or privy to such
obstruction shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction for each offence to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

Mode of making declarations

 188.—(1) Any declaration required by this Act may be made before
the Director, a Justice of the Peace, a Commissioner for Oaths, a
surveyor of ships or any other person authorised to take or receive a
declaration by any law in force in Singapore.

 (2) Any declaration required by this Act may be made on behalf of a
corporation by the director, the secretary or any other agent of the
corporation authorised by the corporation for that purpose.

Continuing offences

 189. Where by a provision of this Act an act or thing is required to
be done within a particular period or before a particular time, the
obligation to do that act or thing continues, even though that period
has expired or that time has passed, until that act or thing is done.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               108

Liability of beneficial owners

 190.—(1) Where any person has a beneficial interest in any ship or
any share therein registered in the name of some other person as
owner, the person so interested, as well as the registered owner of the
ship, is subject to all pecuniary penalties imposed by this Act or any
other written law on the owner of the ship or the shares therein and
proceedings may be taken for the enforcement of any such penalty
against both or either of the aforesaid parties, with or without joining
them.

 (2) For the purpose of this section, a person who has an interest in
any ship or any share therein by way of mortgage, charge or lien, is
not deemed to have a beneficial interest in the ship unless the person
is in possession of the ship.

Offences by body corporate

 191.—(1) Where an offence under this Act which has been
committed by a body corporate is proved to have been committed
with the consent or connivance of, or to be attributable to any neglect
on the part of, a director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of
the body corporate or any person who was purporting to act in any
such capacity, he or she as well as the body corporate shall be guilty
of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

Offences under this Act

 192. A person must not be charged with any offence under this Act
except on the complaint or with the consent of the Public Prosecutor,
the Director, the Port Master, a Port Health Officer or a surveyor of
ships.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
109  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

Forgery, etc., of documents and fraudulent use

 193.—(1) Any person who forges, or fraudulently alters, or assists
in forging or fraudulently altering, or procures or suffers to be forged
or fraudulently altered any of the following documents:

     (a) any declaration;

     (b) any builder’s certificate, bill of sale or other document or
          instrument of title to a ship or any share therein;

     (c) any document evidencing the deletion of a ship from its
         former registry;

     (d) any crew agreement, instrument of mortgage, register,
          certificate, licence, book, instrument or other document
          prescribed by this Act (including replacement or certified
          copies thereof or certified extracts therefrom) or any entry
          or endorsement prescribed by this Act to be made in or on
          any of those documents;

     (e) any document produced to the Director for the purposes of
         obtaining for the person or any other person any certificate,
         licence, book or other document issued under this Act
         (including replacement or certified copies thereof) or for
         the purposes of obtaining an entry or endorsement in or on
         any of those documents,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) Any person who fraudulently uses or allows any other person to
fraudulently use —

     (a) any of the documents mentioned in subsection (1) which is
          forged, altered or otherwise false or misleading in any
          material particular; or

     (b) any of the documents mentioned in subsection (1)(d)
          which has expired or has been cancelled or suspended, or
          has become invalid for any reason,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (3) If any person (A) fraudulently uses any document mentioned in
subsection (1)(d) which is issued to or issued in relation to a person

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               110

and A is not the person named in the document or to which the
document relates, A shall be guilty of an offence.

 (4) If any person (A) allows any other person (B) to fraudulently use
any of the documents mentioned in subsection (1)(d) which is issued
to or issued in relation to a person and B is not the person named in the
document or to which the document relates, A shall be guilty of an
offence.

False declaration, etc.

 194. If any person knowingly or recklessly, for any purpose
prescribed by this Act —

       (a) makes a declaration, statement or representation which is
            false or otherwise misleading in any material particular;

       (b) gives false evidence on oath; or

       (c) makes in any document produced or delivered to any
            person authorised to receive it under this Act, any
            statement or entry which is false or otherwise misleading
            in any material particular,

the person shall be guilty of an offence.

Interfering with person in carrying out duty, etc.

 195. Any person who —

       (a) by violence, threat or intimidation, hinders or interferes
            with or otherwise obstructs the master or an officer of a
            ship in performing his or her duty; or

       (b) resists or wilfully obstructs, assaults, molests or otherwise
            intimidates a person who is carrying out or exercising any
            duty, function, right or power imposed on him or her by
            this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
111  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

Misleading officer, refusal to answer questions, produce
documents, etc.

196. Any person who —

     (a) misleads any other person on whom a duty, function or
          power is imposed on him or her under this Act in any
          material particular which is likely to affect the discharge
          thereof;

     (b) refuses to answer any question lawfully put to him or her,
          or to produce documents in his or her possession or
          custody lawfully demanded of him or her;

     (c) refuses to give all reasonable assistance to any person who
         is carrying out any duty, function or power imposed on him
         or her under this Act; or

     (d) refuses to attend as a witness before an inspector or any
          person having the powers of an inspector, or to make or
          subscribe any declaration required by the inspector or
          person having the powers of an inspector,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000.

Offences relating to markings of ship

 197.—(1) The markings required by this Act to be made on or in a
ship must be permanently continued, and no alteration is to be made,
except in the manner provided by this Act.

 (2) An owner or a master of a ship who, without reasonable cause,
neglects to cause the ship to be so marked, or to keep it so marked;
shall be guilty of an offence.

 (3) Any person who, without reasonable cause, conceals, removes,
alters, defaces, obliterates or suffers any other person under the
firstmentioned person’s control to conceal, remove, alter, deface or
obliterate any of the marks mentioned in subsection (1) shall be guilty
of an offence.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               112

Unauthorised presence on board ship

 198. Where a ship registered in Singapore or elsewhere is in
Singapore and a person who is not authorised by law to do so —

(a) goes on board the ship without the consent of the master or
     any other person authorised to give it; or

(b) remains on board the ship after being requested to leave by
     the Director, the Port Master, the master or a police officer,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

Taking person performing duty to sea

 199. If any person performing his or her duties or functions under
this Act is taken to sea in a ship without his or her consent, the owner
and the master of the ship shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 and shall both be
jointly and severally liable to pay all expenses incidental to the
person’s return to duty.

General penalties

 200.—(1) Any person guilty of an offence under this Act for which
no penalty is expressly provided shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (2) Any person who fails to comply with or does or suffers to be
done anything contrary to the provisions of this Act shall, unless
otherwise provided, be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

Persons appointed or authorised under this Act deemed public
servants

 201. Every person appointed or authorised under this Act for any of
the purposes of this Act, when acting pursuant to any such purpose, is
deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal
Code 1871.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
113       Merchant Shipping Act 1995                          2020 Ed.

Costs of detention of unsafe ships

 202.—(1) If it appears that there was no reasonable or probable
cause for the provisional detention of a ship under section 113, the
Authority shall be liable to pay to the owner of the ship the owner’s
costs of and incidental to the detention and survey of the ship, and
also compensation for any loss or damage sustained by the owner by
reason of the detention or survey.

 (2) An action for any costs or compensation payable by the
Authority under subsection (1) may be brought against the Director
by his or her official title.

(3) If —

     (a) a ship is finally detained under section 113;

     (b) a ship is provisionally detained under section 113 and the
          ship was, at the time of detention, an unsafe ship; or

     (c) a ship is detained under this Act which provides for the
         detention of a ship,

the owner of the ship shall be liable to pay to the Authority its costs of
and incidental to the detention and survey of the ship.

 (4) Any costs payable to the Authority under this Act may be
recovered by the Director and those costs are, without affecting any
other remedy, recoverable as salvage is recoverable.

Security for costs of detention of unsafe ships

 203.—(1) Where a complaint is made to the Director that a ship is
an unsafe ship, the Director may, if he or she thinks fit, require the
complainant to give security to his or her satisfaction for any costs
and compensation which the Director may become liable to pay in
consequence of the detention and survey of the ship.

 (2) Such security must not be required where the complaint is made
by 3 or more crew members belonging to the ship and is not in the
opinion of the Director frivolous or vexatious, and if the complaint is
made in sufficient time before the sailing of the ship, the Director

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               114

must take proper steps to ascertain whether the ship ought to be
detained.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

 (3) Where a ship is detained in consequence of any complaint, and
the circumstances are such that the Authority is liable under
section 202 to pay to the owner of the ship any costs or
compensation, the complainant shall be liable to pay the Authority
all costs incurred and compensation paid by the Authority in respect
of the detention and survey of the ship.

Immunity of Government, Authority and their employees, etc.

 204. No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against the
Government, the Authority or any officer or employee of the
Government or the Authority or any person appointed under this
Act or acting under the direction of the Government or the Authority
for any act done in good faith in the performance, or intended
performance, of any duty, or in the exercise of any power under this
Act, or for any failure or default in the performance or exercise in
good faith of any duty or power under this Act.

                                    PART 11

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Powers of Director, etc.

 205.—(1) The Director, the Port Master, a Port Health Officer, a
surveyor of ships or a police officer may, at any time, for the purposes
of this Act —

       (a) go on board any ship and inspect and examine the ship or
            any part of the ship or its equipment;

       (b) enter and inspect any premises;

       (c) require and enforce the production of any book, certificate
            or document relating to any ship or persons on board the
            ship;

       (d) muster all persons on board any ship;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
115               Merchant Shipping Act 1995                  2020 Ed.

     (e) summon any person before him or her and require the
         person to answer questions; and

        (f) require any ship to be taken into a dock for the purpose of
            surveying the hull.

                                                                                                             [6/2014]

 (2) The Director may compound any offence under this Act that is
prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from the person
reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum not
exceeding the lower of the following:

     (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
          prescribed for the offence;

     (b) $2,000.

                                                              [3/2019]

 (3) On payment of the sum of money under subsection (2), no
further proceedings are to be taken against that person in respect of
the offence.

                                                                                                             [3/2019]

Powers of inspector

 206. An inspector and any person having the powers of such an
inspector —

       (a) have the powers conferred under section 205(1); and

       (b) may administer oaths or may, in lieu of requiring or
            administering an oath, require every person examined by
            him or her to make and subscribe to a declaration of the
            truth of the statements made by the person in the
            examination.

Power of arrest

 207.—(1) The Director, the Port Master, a Port Health Officer, a
surveyor of ships or a police officer may arrest without warrant any
person who has committed an offence under this Act and take him or
her before a District Court or a Magistrate’s Court (as the case may
be) to be dealt with according to law.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               116

 (2) Any article concerning, by or for which an offence has been
committed may be seized and taken to a police station, unless given
up sooner by order of a District Court or a Magistrate’s Court.

Power of General Division of High Court to remove master

 208.—(1) The General Division of the High Court may remove the
master of any ship within the jurisdiction of the General Division of
the High Court, if that removal is shown to the satisfaction of the
General Division of the High Court by affidavit evidence to be
necessary.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) The removal of the master under subsection (1) is to be made
upon the application of any owner of the ship or the owner’s agent, or
of the authorised agent of the ship, or of any certificated mate or
engineer, or of one-third or more of the crew of the ship.

 (3) The General Division of the High Court may appoint a new
master in place of the one removed, but where the owner or agent of
the ship is within the jurisdiction of the General Division of the High
Court, such an appointment must not be made without the consent of
the owner or agent.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (4) The General Division of the High Court may also make such
order and require such security in respect of the costs of the matter as
the General Division of the High Court thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Enforcing detention of ship

 209.—(1) Where under this Act a ship is to be or may be detained,
the Director, the Port Master, a surveyor of ships, a police officer not
below the rank of inspector or a commissioned officer on full pay in
the Singapore Armed Forces may detain the ship if it is in Singapore,
and the ship may be detained until it complies with the provisions
which it contravened.

 (2) If the ship, after detention, or after service on the master of the
ship of any notice of or order for detention, goes to sea before it is
released by the competent authority, the owner and the master of the
ship, and also any person who is party or privy to the offence, shall

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
117  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

each be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (3) Any person authorised under this section to detain a ship may, if
he or she thinks it necessary to do so, place a police guard on board.

 (4) Any police guard so placed on board a ship may take any steps
that are necessary to prevent the ship from going to sea.

Issue of new document

 210.—(1) Where a document issued by the Director or the Registrar
under this Act is mislaid, lost or destroyed, the following person (as
applicable) must make a declaration stating the facts of the case to the
best of the person’s knowledge and belief:

       (a) in the case of a document which relates to a ship, the master
            or the owner of the ship;

       (b) in the case of a document which relates to a person, the
            person;

       (c) some other person having knowledge of the facts of the
            case,

and the Director or the Registrar may thereupon issue a new
document in lieu of the original document.

 (2) The declaration under subsection (1) must contain an
undertaking to surrender to the Director or the Registrar the
document declared mislaid, lost or destroyed, when the document
is subsequently recovered.

 (3) The Director or the Registrar may, on the delivery up to him or
her of a document issued by him or her under this Act, issue a new
document in lieu thereof.

Issue of certified copies or extracts

 211. The Director or the Registrar may issue certified copies of or
extracts from any document issued by him or her or in his or her
custody.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               118

Copy of Act and regulations to be kept on Singapore ships

 212.—(1) The master of a Singapore ship which is propelled by
mechanical means must keep a copy of this Act on board the ship,
except that the master is not obliged to keep a copy of any regulations
which do not apply to the ship.

 (2) Any master who, without reasonable cause, contravenes this
section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

Powers of Authority to prescribe fees, recovery of fees and
application of moneys

 213.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations prescribing the fees to be paid in respect of the issue
or recording of any certificate, licence or other instrument or the
doing of any other thing pursuant to this Act.

 (2) All fees prescribed under this Act are to be paid to the Director.

 (3) All fees due to or which may be recovered by the Director under
this Act are, without affecting any other remedy, recoverable as
salvage is recoverable.

 (4) In this section, “fees” includes —

       (a) the fees prescribed under section 14;

       (b) the fines imposed on the seamen of a ship for disciplinary
            offences required by section 83 to be paid to the Director;

       (c) the fees in respect of survey or inspection of a ship or its
            equipment or other services rendered to or in relation to a
            ship by a surveyor of ships or a radio surveyor; and

       (d) the fees in respect of services rendered to or in relation to a
            ship by the Director or a person authorised by the Director.

 (5) All moneys recovered or received under this Act must be paid to
the Authority except that the annual tonnage tax paid under
section 14(2) must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
119  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

Documents to be in approved form

 214. Every register, certificate, licence, book, instrument or other
document prescribed by this Act must be made in the form (if any)
that may be approved by the Authority or as near thereto as
circumstances permit.

Exemption

 215.—(1) The Minister may exempt any person or ship or
description of persons or ships from all or any of the provisions of
this Act.

 (2) Any power conferred by this Act to provide for or grant an
exemption includes the power to provide for or grant the exemption
subject to conditions and to revoke the exemption.

Regulations

 216.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make such regulations as are necessary for carrying into effect the
provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may, with the
approval of the Minister, make regulations —

       (a) to exempt any person or ship or description of persons or
            ships from all or any of the provisions of this Act;

       (b) to empower the Director to exempt any person or ship or
            description of persons or ships from all or any of the
            provisions of the regulations;

       (c) to prescribe the form of any document that may be required
            and to prescribe different forms for different
            circumstances;

       (d) to make different provision for different descriptions of
            persons or ships or for persons or ships of the same
            description in different circumstances;

       (e) to prescribe the offences that may be compounded;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               120

          (f) to make provisions for any incidental or supplementary
              matters for which the Authority thinks it expedient for the
              purposes of the regulations to provide; and

(g) to make a contravention of any provision of any regulation
     an offence punishable with a fine not exceeding $10,000.

Transitional provisions

 217.—(1) Every Singapore ship registered before 2 February 1996
is deemed to be registered under Part 2 of this Act and the provisions
of this Act apply to the ship and all matters relating thereto as they
apply to a ship registered on or after that date.

 (2) Any document, endorsement, exemption or certificate prepared,
made or granted under the repealed Merchant Shipping Act
(Cap. 179, 1985 Revised Edition) is to, so far as it is not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act and except as otherwise
expressly provided in this Act, continue and be deemed to have been
prepared or granted under the corresponding provisions of this Act.

 (3) Any reference to the Surveyor-General of Ships or
Superintendent of the Mercantile Marine Office in any written law
is to be read as a reference to the Director.

                        FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                  Sections 134 and 143

          CONVENTION ON LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
                    FOR MARITIME CLAIMS, 1976
                                      Part I
                         TEXT OF CONVENTION
                                 CHAPTER I
                      THE RIGHT OF LIMITATION
                                  ARTICLE 1

                             Persons entitled to limit liability

 1. Shipowners and salvors, as hereinafter defined, may limit their liability in
accordance with the rules of this Convention for claims set out in Article 2.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
121  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

     FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

 2. The term “shipowner” shall mean the owner, charterer, manager and operator
of a seagoing ship.

 3. Salvor shall mean any person rendering services in direct connection with
salvage operations. Salvage operations shall also include operations referred to in
Article 2, paragraph 1(d), (e) and (f).

 4. If any claims set out in Article 2 are made against any person for whose act,
neglect or default the shipowner or salvor is responsible, such person shall be
entitled to avail himself of the limitation of liability provided for in this
Convention.

 5. In this Convention, the liability of a shipowner shall include liability in an
action brought against the vessel herself.

 6. An insurer of liability for claims subject to limitation in accordance with the
rules of this Convention shall be entitled to the benefits of this Convention to the
same extent as the assured himself.

 7. The act of invoking limitation of liability shall not constitute an admission of
liability.

     ARTICLE 2

                                Claims subject to limitation

 1. Subject to Articles 3 and 4, the following claims, whatever the basis of
liability may be, shall be subject to limitation of liability:

        (a) claims in respect of loss of life or personal injury or loss of or damage
             to property (including damage to harbour works, basins and waterways
             and aids to navigation), occurring on board or in direct connection with
             the operation of the ship or with salvage operations, and consequential
             loss resulting therefrom;

        (b) claims in respect of loss resulting from delay in the carriage by sea of
             cargo, passengers or their luggage;

        (c) claims in respect of other loss resulting from infringement of rights
             other than contractual rights, occurring in direct connection with the
             operation of the ship or salvage operations;

        (d) claims in respect of the raising, removal, destruction or the rendering
             harmless of a ship which is sunk, wrecked, stranded or abandoned,
             including anything that is or has been on board such ship;

        (e) claims in respect of the removal, destruction or the rendering harmless
             of the cargo of the ship;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               122

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          (f) claims of a person other than the person liable in respect of measures
              taken in order to avert or minimise loss for which the person liable may
              limit his liability in accordance with this Convention, and further loss
              caused by such measures.

 2. Claims set out in paragraph 1 shall be subject to limitation of liability even if
brought by way of recourse or for indemnity under a contract or otherwise.
However, claims set out under paragraph 1(d), (e) and (f) shall not be subject to
limitation of liability to the extent that they relate to remuneration under a contract
with the person liable.

          ARTICLE 3

                             Claims excepted from limitation

The rules of this Convention shall not apply to:

        (a) claims for salvage, including, if applicable, any claim for special
             compensation under Article 14 of the International Convention on
             Salvage, 1989, as amended, or contribution in general average;

        (b) claims for oil pollution damage within the meaning of the International
             Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, dated
             29 November 1969 or of any amendment or Protocol thereto which
             is in force;

        (c) claims subject to any international convention or national legislation
             governing or prohibiting limitation of liability for nuclear damage;

        (d) claims against the shipowner of a nuclear ship for nuclear damage;

        (e) claims by servants of the shipowner or salvor whose duties are
             connected with the ship or the salvage operations, including claims of
             their heirs, dependants or other persons entitled to make such claims, if
             under the law governing the contract of service between the shipowner
             or salvor and such servants the shipowner or salvor is not entitled to
             limit his liability in respect of such claims, or if he is by such law only
             permitted to limit his liability to an amount greater than that provided
             for in Article 6.

                                         ARTICLE 4

                                Conduct barring limitation

   A person liable shall not be entitled to limit his liability if it is proved that the
loss resulted from his personal act or omission, committed with the intent to cause
such loss, or recklessly and with knowledge that such loss would probably result.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
123  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

     FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

               ARTICLE 5

                                        Counterclaims

    Where a person entitled to limitation of liability under the rules of this
Convention has a claim against the claimant arising out of the same occurrence,
their respective claims shall be set off against each other and the provisions of this
Convention shall only apply to the balance, if any.

                     CHAPTER II
               LIMITS OF LIABILITY

                      ARTICLE 6

                                      The general limits

 1. The limits of liability for claims other than those mentioned in Article 7,
arising on any distinct occasion, shall be calculated as follows:

        (a) in respect of claims for loss of life or personal injury,

                  (i) 3.02 million Units of Account for a ship with a tonnage not
                      exceeding 2,000 tons;

                 (ii) for a ship with a tonnage in excess of 2,000 tons, the following
                      amount in addition to that mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i):

.    for each ton from 2,001 to 30,000 tons, 1,208 Units of

     Account;

     for each ton from 30,001 to 70,000 tons, 906 Units of Account;
     and

     for each ton in excess of 70,000 tons, 604 Units of Account;

     (b) in respect of any other claims,

              (i) 1.51 million Units of Account for a ship with a tonnage not
                   exceeding 2,000 tons;

             (ii) for a ship with a tonnage in excess of 2,000 tons, the following
                   amount in addition to that mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i):

.    for each ton from 2,001 to 30,000 tons, 604 Units of Account;

     for each ton from 30,001 to 70,000 tons, 453 Units of Account;
     and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               124

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          for each ton in excess of 70,000 tons, 302 Units of Account.

 2. Where the amount calculated in accordance with paragraph 1(a) is
insufficient to pay the claims mentioned therein in full, the amount calculated
in accordance with paragraph 1(b) shall be available for payment of the unpaid
balance of claims under paragraph 1(a) and such unpaid balance shall rank
rateably with claims mentioned under paragraph 1(b).

 3. However, without prejudice to the right of claims for loss of life or personal
injury according to paragraph 2, a State Party may provide in its national law that
claims in respect of damage to harbour works, basins and waterways and aids to
navigation shall have such priority over other claims under paragraph 1(b) as is
provided by that law.

 4. The limits of liability for any salvor not operating from any ship or for any
salvor operating solely on the ship to, or in respect of which he is rendering
salvage services, shall be calculated according to a tonnage of 1,500 tons.

 5. For the purpose of this Convention, the ship’s tonnage shall be the gross
tonnage calculated in accordance with the tonnage measurement rules contained
in Annex 1 of the International Convention on Tonnage Measurement of Ships,
1969.

                                         ARTICLE 7

                              The limit for passenger claims

 1. In respect of claims arising on any distinct occasion for loss of life or personal
injury to passengers of a ship, the limit of liability of the shipowner of the ship is
an amount of 175,000 Units of Account multiplied by the number of passengers
that the ship is authorised to carry according to the ship’s certificate.

 2. For the purpose of this Article, “claims for loss of life or personal injury to
passengers of a ship” shall mean any such claims brought by or on behalf of any
person carried in that ship:

        (a) under a contract of passenger carriage; or

        (b) who, with the consent of the carrier, is accompanying a vehicle or live
             animals which are covered by a contract for the carriage of goods.

                                         ARTICLE 8

                                       Unit of Account

  The Unit of Account referred to in Articles 6 and 7 is the Special Drawing Right
as defined by the International Monetary Fund. The amounts mentioned in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
125  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

     FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Articles 6 and 7 shall be converted into the national currency of the State in which
limitation is sought, according to the value of that currency at the date the
limitation fund shall have been constituted, payment is made, or security is given
which under the law of that State is equivalent to such payment.

     ARTICLE 9

                                   Aggregation of claims

 1. The limits of liability determined in accordance with Article 6 shall apply to
the aggregate of all claims which arise on any distinct occasion:

        (a) against the person or persons mentioned in paragraph 2 of Article 1 and
             any person for whose act, neglect or default he or they are responsible;

        (b) against the shipowner of a ship rendering salvage services from that
             ship and the salvor or salvors operating from such ship and any person
             for whose act, neglect or default he or they are responsible; or

        (c) against the salvor or salvors who are not operating from a ship or who
             are operating solely on the ship to, or in respect of which, the salvage
             services are rendered and any person for whose act, neglect or default
             he or they are responsible.

 2. The limits of liability determined in accordance with Article 7 shall apply to
the aggregate of all claims subject thereto which may arise on any distinct
occasion against the person or persons mentioned in paragraph 2 of Article 1 in
respect of the ship referred to in Article 7 and any person for whose act, neglect or
default he or they are responsible.

                                        ARTICLE 10

           Limitation of liability without constitution of a limitation fund

 1. Limitation of liability may be invoked notwithstanding that a limitation fund
as mentioned in Article 11 has not been constituted.

 2. If limitation of liability is invoked without the constitution of a limitation
fund, the provisions of Article 12 shall apply correspondingly.

 3. Questions of procedure arising under the rules of this Article shall be decided
in accordance with the national law of the State Party in which action is brought.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               126

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          CHAPTER III

          THE LIMITATION FUND

          ARTICLE 11

                                  Constitution of the fund

 1. Any person alleged to be liable may constitute a fund with the Court or other
competent authority in any State Party in which legal proceedings are instituted in
respect of claims subject to limitation. The fund shall be constituted in the sum of
such of the amounts set out in Articles 6 and 7 as are applicable to claims for which
that person may be liable, together with interest thereon from the date of the
occurrence giving rise to the liability until the date of the constitution of the fund.
Any fund thus constituted shall be available only for the payment of claims in
respect of which limitation of liability can be invoked.

 2. A fund may be constituted, either by depositing the sum, or by producing a
guarantee acceptable under the legislation of the State Party where the fund is
constituted and considered to be adequate by the Court or other competent
authority.

 3. A fund constituted by one of the persons mentioned in paragraph 1(a), (b) or
(c) or paragraph 2 of Article 9 or his insurer shall be deemed constituted by all
persons mentioned in paragraph 1(a), (b) or (c) or paragraph 2, respectively.

                                        ARTICLE 12

                                  Distribution of the fund

 1. Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 6 and of Article 7,
the fund shall be distributed among the claimants in proportion to their established
claims against the fund.

 2. If, before the fund is distributed, the person liable, or his insurer, has settled a
claim against the fund such person shall, up to the amount he has paid, acquire by
subrogation the rights which the person so compensated would have enjoyed
under this Convention.

 3. The right of subrogation provided for in paragraph 2 may also be exercised by
persons other than those therein mentioned in respect of any amount of
compensation which they may have paid, but only to the extent that such
subrogation is permitted under the applicable national law.

 4. Where the person liable or any other person establishes that he may be
compelled to pay, at a later date, in whole or in part any such amount of
compensation with regard to which such person would have enjoyed a right of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
127  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

     FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

subrogation pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 3 had the compensation been paid before
the fund was distributed, the Court or other competent authority of the State where
the fund has been constituted may order that a sufficient sum shall be provisionally
set aside to enable such person at such later date to enforce his claim against the
fund.

     ARTICLE 13

                                    Bar to other actions

 1. Where a limitation fund has been constituted in accordance with Article 11,
any person having made a claim against the fund shall be barred from exercising
any right in respect of such claim against any other assets of a person by or on
behalf of whom the fund has been constituted.

 2. After a limitation fund has been constituted in accordance with Article 11, any
ship or other property, belonging to a person on behalf of whom the fund has been
constituted, which has been arrested or attached within the jurisdiction of a State
Party for a claim which may be raised against the fund, or any security given, may
be released by order of the Court or other competent authority of such State.
However, such release shall always be ordered if the limitation fund has been
constituted:

        (a) at the port where the occurrence took place, or, if it took place out of
             port, at the first port of call thereafter;

        (b) at the port of disembarkation in respect of claims for loss of life or
             personal injury;

        (c) at the port of discharge in respect of damage to cargo; or

        (d) in the State where the arrest is made.

 3. The rules of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply only if the claimant may bring a
claim against the limitation fund before the Court administering that fund and the
fund is actually available and freely transferable in respect of that claim.

                                        ARTICLE 14

                                        Governing law

   Subject to the provisions of this Chapter, the rules relating to the constitution
and distribution of a limitation fund, and all rules of procedure in connection
therewith, shall be governed by the law of the State Party in which the fund is
constituted.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               128

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          CHAPTER IV

          SCOPE OF APPLICATION

          ARTICLE 15

  This Convention shall apply whenever any person referred to in Article 1 seeks
to limit his liability before the Court of a State Party or seeks to procure the release
of a ship or other property or the discharge of any security given within the
jurisdiction of any such State.

                                                                                 [56/2004; 3/2019; S 816/2019]

                           SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                        Sections 145 and 145A(4)

            INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION ON SALVAGE, 1989

                       Chapter 1 — GENERAL PROVISIONS

Article 1. Definitions

   For the purpose of this Convention —

        (a) Salvage operation means any act or activity undertaken to assist a
             vessel or any other property in danger in navigable waters or in any
             other waters whatsoever.

        (b) Vessel means any ship or craft, or any structure capable of navigation.

        (c) Property means any property not permanently and intentionally
             attached to the shoreline and includes freight at risk.

        (d) Damage to the environment means substantial physical damage to
             human health or to marine life or resources in coastal or inland waters
             or areas adjacent thereto, caused by pollution, contamination, fire,
             explosion or similar major incidents.

        (e) Payment means any reward, remuneration or compensation due under
             this Convention.

         (f) Organization means the International Maritime Organization.

        (g) Secretary‑General means the Secretary‑General of the Organization.

Article 2. Application of the Convention

   This Convention shall apply whenever judicial or arbitral proceedings relating
to matters dealt with in this Convention are brought in a State Party.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
129  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

Article 3. Platforms and drilling units

   This Convention shall not apply to fixed or floating platforms or to mobile
offshore drilling units when such platforms or units are on location engaged in the
exploration, exploitation or production of sea‑bed mineral resources.

Article 4. State-owned vessels

   Without prejudice to Article 5, this Convention shall not apply to warships or
other non-commercial vessels owned or operated by a State and entitled, at the
time of salvage operations, to sovereign immunity under generally recognized
principles of international law unless that State decides otherwise.

Article 5. Salvage operations controlled by public authorities

 1. This Convention shall not affect any provisions of national law or any
international convention relating to salvage operations by or under the control of
public authorities.

 2. Nevertheless, salvors carrying out such salvage operations shall be entitled to
avail themselves of the rights and remedies provided for in this Convention in
respect of salvage operations.

 3. The extent to which a public authority under a duty to perform salvage
operations may avail itself of the rights and remedies provided for in this
Convention shall be determined by the law of the State where such authority is
situated.

Article 6. Salvage contracts

 1. This Convention shall apply to any salvage operations save to the extent that a
contract otherwise provides expressly or by implication.

 2. The master shall have the authority to conclude contracts for salvage
operations on behalf of the owner of the vessel. The master or the owner of the
vessel shall have the authority to conclude such contracts on behalf of the owner of
the property on board the vessel.

 3. Nothing in this Article shall affect the application of Article 7 nor duties to
prevent or minimize damage to the environment.

Article 7. Annulment and modification of contracts

   A contract or any terms thereof may be annulled or modified if —

        (a) the contract has been entered into under undue influence or the
             influence of danger and its terms are inequitable; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               130

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

(b) the payment under the contract is in an excessive degree too large or
     too small for the services actually rendered.

         Chapter 2 — PERFORMANCE OF SALVAGE OPERATIONS

Article 8. Duties of the salvor and of the owner and master

 1. The salvor shall owe a duty to the owner of the vessel or other property in
danger —

        (a) to carry out the salvage operations with due care;

        (b) in performing the duty specified in sub‑paragraph (a), to exercise due
             care to prevent or minimize damage to the environment;

        (c) whenever circumstances reasonably require, to seek assistance from
             other salvors; and

        (d) to accept the intervention of other salvors when reasonably requested
             to do so by the owner or master of the vessel or other property in
             danger; provided however that the amount of his reward shall not be
             prejudiced should it be found that such a request was unreasonable.

 2. The owner and master of the vessel or the owner of other property in danger
shall owe a duty to the salvor —

        (a) to co‑operate fully with him during the course of the salvage
             operations;

        (b) in so doing, to exercise due care to prevent or minimize damage to the
             environment; and

        (c) when the vessel or other property has been brought to a place of safety,
             to accept redelivery when reasonably requested by the salvor to do so.

Article 9. Rights of coastal States

   Nothing in this Convention shall affect the right of the coastal State concerned
to take measures in accordance with generally recognized principles of
international law to protect its coastline or related interests from pollution or
the threat of pollution following upon a maritime casualty or acts relating to such a
casualty which may reasonably be expected to result in major harmful
consequences, including the right of a coastal State to give directions in
relation to salvage operations.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
131  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

Article 10. Duty to render assistance

 1. Every master is bound, so far as he can do so without serious danger to his
vessel and persons thereon, to render assistance to any person in danger of being
lost at sea.

 2. The States Parties shall adopt the measures necessary to enforce the duty set
out in paragraph 1.

 3. The owner of the vessel shall incur no liability for a breach of the duty of the
master under paragraph 1.

Article 11. Co-operation

   A State Party shall, whenever regulating or deciding upon matters relating to
salvage operations such as admittance to ports of vessels in distress or the
provision of facilities to salvors, take into account the need for co-operation
between salvors, other interested parties and public authorities in order to ensure
the efficient and successful performance of salvage operations for the purpose of
saving life or property in danger as well as preventing damage to the environment
in general.

                         Chapter 3 — RIGHTS OF SALVORS
Article 12. Conditions for reward
 1. Salvage operations which have had a useful result give right to a reward.
 2. Except as otherwise provided, no payment is due under this Convention if the
salvage operations have had no useful result.
 3. This Chapter shall apply, notwithstanding that the salved vessel and the vessel
undertaking the salvage operations belong to the same owner.

Article 13. Criteria for fixing the reward
 1. The reward shall be fixed with a view to encouraging salvage operations,
taking into account the following criteria without regard to the order in which they
are presented below:

        (a) the salved value of the vessel and other property;
        (b) the skill and efforts of the salvors in preventing or minimizing damage

             to the environment;
        (c) the measure of success obtained by the salvor;
        (d) the nature and degree of the danger;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                                          132

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

(e) the skill and efforts of the salvors in salving the vessel, other property
    and life;

          (f) the time used and expenses and losses incurred by the salvors;

(g) the risk of liability and other risks run by the salvors or their
     equipment;

(h) the promptness of the services rendered;

          (i) the availability and use of vessels or other equipment intended for
              salvage operations;

          (j) the state of readiness and efficiency of the salvor’s equipment and the
              value thereof.

 2. Payment of a reward fixed according to paragraph 1 shall be made by all of
the vessel and other property interests in proportion to their respective salved
values. However, a State Party may in its national law provide that the payment of
a reward has to be made by one of these interests, subject to a right of recourse of
this interest against the other interests for their respective shares. Nothing in this
Article shall prevent any right of defence.

 3. The rewards, exclusive of any interest and recoverable legal costs that may be
payable thereon, shall not exceed the salved value of the vessel and other property.

Article 14. Special compensation

 1. If the salvor has carried out salvage operations in respect of a vessel which by
itself or its cargo threatened damage to the environment and has failed to earn a
reward under Article 13 at least equivalent to the special compensation assessable
in accordance with this Article, he shall be entitled to special compensation from
the owner of that vessel equivalent to his expenses as herein defined.

 2. If, in the circumstances set out in paragraph 1, the salvor by his salvage
operations has prevented or minimized damage to the environment, the special
compensation payable by the owner to the salvor under paragraph 1 may be
increased up to a maximum of 30% of the expenses incurred by the salvor.
However, the tribunal, if it deems it fair and just to do so and bearing in mind the
relevant criteria set out in Article 13, paragraph 1, may increase such special
compensation further, but in no event shall the total increase be more than 100% of
the expenses incurred by the salvor.

 3. Salvor’s expenses for the purpose of paragraphs 1 and 2 means the
out‑of‑pocket expenses reasonably incurred by the salvor in the salvage
operation and a fair rate for equipment and personnel actually and reasonably
used in the salvage operation, taking into consideration the criteria set out in
Article 13, paragraph 1(h), (i) and (j).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
133  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

 4. The total special compensation under this Article shall be paid only if and to
the extent that such compensation is greater than any reward recoverable by the
salvor under Article 13.

 5. If the salvor has been negligent and has thereby failed to prevent or minimize
damage to the environment, he may be deprived of the whole or part of any special
compensation due under this Article.

 6. Nothing in this Article shall affect any right of recourse on the part of the
owner of the vessel.

Article 15. Apportionment between salvors

 1. The apportionment of a reward under Article 13 between salvors shall be
made on the basis of the criteria contained in that Article.

 2. The apportionment between the owner, master and other persons in the
service of each salving vessel shall be determined by the law of the flag of that
vessel. If the salvage has not been carried out from a vessel, the apportionment
shall be determined by the law governing the contract between the salvor and his
servants.

Article 16. Salvage of persons

 1. No remuneration is due from persons whose lives are saved, but nothing in
this Article shall affect the provisions of national law on this subject.

 2. A salvor of human life, who has taken part in the services rendered on the
occasion of the accident giving rise to salvage, is entitled to a fair share of the
payment awarded to the salvor for salving the vessel or other property or
preventing or minimizing damage to the environment.

Article 17. Services rendered under existing contracts

   No payment is due under the provisions of this Convention unless the services
rendered exceed what can be reasonably considered as due performance of a
contract entered into before the danger arose.

Article 18. The effect of salvor’s misconduct

   A salvor may be deprived of the whole or part of the payment due under this
Convention to the extent that the salvage operations have become necessary or
more difficult because of fault or neglect on his part or if the salvor has been guilty
of fraud or other dishonest conduct.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               134

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

Article 19. Prohibition of salvage operations

  Services rendered notwithstanding the express and reasonable prohibition of the
owner or master of the vessel or the owner of any other property in danger which is
not and has not been on board the vessel shall not give rise to payment under this
Convention.

                       Chapter 4 — CLAIMS AND ACTIONS

Article 20. Maritime lien

 1. Nothing in this Convention shall affect the salvor’s maritime lien under any
international convention or national law.

 2. The salvor may not enforce his maritime lien when satisfactory security for
his claim, including interest and costs, has been duly tendered or provided.

Article 21. Duty to provide security

 1. Upon the request of the salvor a person liable for a payment due under this
Convention shall provide satisfactory security for the claim, including interest and
costs of the salvor.

 2. Without prejudice to paragraph 1, the owner of the salved vessel shall use his
best endeavours to ensure that the owners of the cargo provide satisfactory
security for the claims against them including interest and costs before the cargo is
released.

 3. The salved vessel and other property shall not, without the consent of the
salvor, be removed from the port or place at which they first arrive after the
completion of the salvage operations until satisfactory security has been put up for
the salvor’s claim against the relevant vessel or property.

Article 22. Interim payment

 1. The tribunal having jurisdiction over the claim of the salvor may, by interim
decision, order that the salvor shall be paid on account such amount as seems fair
and just, and on such terms including terms as to security where appropriate, as
may be fair and just according to the circumstances of the case.

 2. In the event of an interim payment under this Article the security provided
under Article 21 shall be reduced accordingly.

Article 23. Limitation of actions

 1. Any action relating to payment under this Convention shall be time‑barred if
judicial or arbitral proceedings have not been instituted within a period of 2 years.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
135  Merchant Shipping Act 1995                               2020 Ed.

     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

The limitation period commences on the day on which the salvage operations are
terminated.

 2. The person against whom a claim is made may at any time during the running
of the limitation period extend that period by a declaration to the claimant. This
period may in the like manner be further extended.

 3. An action for indemnity by a person liable may be instituted even after the
expiration of the limitation period provided for in the preceding paragraphs, if
brought within the time allowed by the law of the State where proceedings are
instituted.

Article 24. Interest

   The right of the salvor to interest on any payment due under this Convention
shall be determined according to the law of the State in which the tribunal seized
of the case is situated.

Article 25. State-owned cargoes

   Unless the State owner consents, no provision of this Convention shall be used
as a basis for the seizure, arrest or detention by any legal process of, nor for any
proceedings in rem against, non‑commercial cargoes owned by a State and
entitled, at the time of the salvage operations, to sovereign immunity under
generally recognized principles of international law.

Article 26. Humanitarian cargoes

  No provision of this Convention shall be used as a basis for the seizure, arrest or
detention of humanitarian cargoes donated by a State, if such State has agreed to
pay for salvage services rendered in respect of such humanitarian cargoes.

Article 27. Publication of arbitral awards

   States Parties shall encourage, as far as possible and with the consent of the
parties, the publication of arbitral awards made in salvage cases.

                                                                                                             [3/2019]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                  MERCHANT SHIPPING ACT 1995

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                             PART 1
              MERCHANT SHIPPING ACT
      (CHAPTER 179, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

1. Ordinance XXXII of 1910 — The Merchant Shipping Ordinance 1910

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1474/1908

First Reading         : 29 January 1909

Second Reading        : 2 April 1909

Notice of Amendments  : 9 December 1910

Third Reading         : 9 December 1910

Commencement          : 1 December 1912

Note: This Ordinance was amended by The Public Authorities Protection
        Ordinance 1912 (Ordinance XI of 1912) and The Merchant Shipping
        Ordinance 1910 Amendment Ordinance 1912 (Ordinance XIII of
        1912) before it came into force.

2. Ordinance XXXII of 1914 — The Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                          Ordinance 1914

Bill                  : G.N. No. 239/1914

First Reading         : 27 February 1914

Second Reading        : 13 March 1914

Notice of Amendments  : 13 November 1914

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                      ii

Third Reading         : 18 December 1914

Commencement          : 31 December 1914

3. G.N. No. S 413/1917 — The Merchant Shipping Ordinance, 1910 and The
                                 Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                 Ordinance, 1914

Commencement          : 5 April 1917 (section 390A)

4. Ordinance 32 of 1920 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1920

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1854/1920

First Reading         : 25 October 1920

Second Reading        : 3 November 1920

Third Reading         : 22 November 1920

Commencement          : 11 December 1920

5. 1920 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 125 (Merchant Shipping)

Operation             : 28 November 1921

6. Ordinance 26 of 1921 — Statute Laws (Revised Edition) Operation
                                    Ordinance, 1921

   (Amendments made by section 3(a) read with Schedules B and C to the above
   Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1854/1921

First and Second Readings : 22 November 1921

Notice of Amendments  : 22 November 1921

Third Reading         : 22 November 1921

Commencement          : 28 November 1921 (section 3(a) read
                            with Schedules B and C)

7. Ordinance 14 of 1922 — Ordinance No. 125 (Merchant Shipping)
                                    Amendment Ordinance, 1922

Bill                  : G.N. No. 2000/1921

First Reading         : 19 December 1921

Second Reading        : 20 February 1922

Notice of Amendments  : 20 February 1922

Third Reading         : 12 June 1922

Commencement          : 30 June 1922

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                         iii

8. Ordinance 23 of 1922 — Ordinance No. 125 (Merchant Shipping)
                                    Amendment (No. 2) Ordinance, 1922

Bill                     : G.N. No. 1482/1922

First, Second and Third  : 11 September 1922
Readings

Commencement             : 24 September 1922

9. Ordinance 35 of 1922 — Ordinance No. 125 (Merchant Shipping)
                                    (Amendment No. 3) Ordinance, 1922

Bill                     : G.N. No. 433/1922

First Reading            : 11 September 1922

Second Reading           : 30 October 1922

Notice of Amendments     : 30 October 1922

Third Reading            : 27 November 1922

Commencement             : 15 December 1922

10. Ordinance 5 of 1924 — Merchant Shipping Amendment Ordinance, 1924

Bill                     : G.N. No. 198/1924

First Reading            : 18 February 1924

Second Reading           : 14 April 1924

Notice of Amendments     : 30 June 1924

Third Reading            : 30 June 1924

Commencement             : 12 July 1924 (section 3)
                               1 March 1925 (section 2)

11. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 125 (Merchant Shipping)

Operation                : 1 August 1926

12. Ordinance 28 of 1926 — The Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1926

Bill                     : G.N. No. 1353/1926

First Reading            : 6 September 1926

Second Reading           : 11 October 1926

Notice of Amendments     : 1 November 1926

Third Reading            : 1 November 1926

Commencement             : 19 November 1926

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                      iv

13. Ordinance 10 of 1928 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1928

Bill                  : G.N. No. 2124/1927

First Reading         : 12 December 1927

Second Reading        : 30 January 1928

Notice of Amendments  : 26 March 1928

Third Reading         : 7 May 1928

Commencement          : 30 May 1928

14. Ordinance 18 of 1929 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1929

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1325/1929

First Reading         : 3 July 1929

Second Reading        : 2 September 1929

Notice of Amendments  : 7 October 1929

Third Reading         : 7 October 1929

Commencement          : 24 October 1929

15. Ordinance 20 of 1932 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1932

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1499/1932

First Reading         : 8 August 1932

Second Reading        : 19 October 1932

Notice of Amendments  : 19 October 1932

Third Reading         : 5 December 1932

Commencement          : 15 December 1932

16. G.N. No. 2505/1932 — “Ordinance No. 125 (Merchant Shipping)”

Commencement          : 1 January 1933 (section 247A)

17. Ordinance 8 of 1933 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1933

Bill                  : G.N. No. 2399/1932

First Reading         : 16 January 1933

Second Reading        : 6 March 1933

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                      v

Notice of Amendments  : 6 March 1933

Third Reading         : 6 March 1933

Commencement          : 25 March 1933

18. Ordinance 14 of 1933 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment No. 2)
                                      Ordinance, 1933

Bill                  : G.N. No. 733/1933

First Reading         : 1 May 1933

Second and Third Readings : 31 July 1933

Commencement          : 15 August 1933

19. Ordinance 34 of 1934 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1934

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1154/1934

First Reading         : 28 May 1934

Second Reading        : 30 July 1934

Notice of Amendments  : 24 September 1934

Third Reading         : 24 September 1934

Commencement          : 25 October 1934

20. Ordinance 20 of 1935 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                      Ordinance 1935

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1499/1935

First and Second Readings : 17 June 1935

Notice of Amendments  : 17 June 1935

Third Reading         : 17 June 1935

Commencement          : 1 July 1935

21. Ordinance 63 of 193 — Statute Law Revision Ordinance, 1935
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with item (m) of the First Schedule to
     the above Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N No. 3043/1935

First Reading         : 20 November 1935

Second Reading        : 9 December 1935

Notice of Amendments  : 9 December 1935

Third Reading         : 9 December 1935

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                      vi

Commencement          : 31 December 1935 (section 2 read
                            with item (m) of the First Schedule)

22. 1936 Revised Edition — Merchant Shipping Ordinance (Chapter 150)

Operation             : 1 September 1936

23. Ordinance 22 of 1936 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1936

Bill                  : G.N. No. 2516/1936

First Reading         : 26 October 1936

Second Reading        : 18 November 1936

Notice of Amendments  : 18 November 1936

Third Reading         : 18 November 1936

Commencement          : 4 December 1936

24. Ordinance 3 of 1937 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1937

Bill                  : G.N. No. 342/1937

First Reading         : 15 February 1937

Second and Third Readings : 26 April 1937

Commencement          : 10 May 1937

25. Ordinance 45 of 1937 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment No. 2)
                                      Ordinance, 1937

Bill                  : G.N. No. 2937/1937

First Reading         : 25 October 1937

Second Reading        : 17 November 1937

Notice of Amendments  : 15 December 1937

Third Reading         : 15 December 1937

Commencement          : 29 December 1937

26. Ordinance 1 of 1938 — Treasury Officers (Titles and Powers)
                                    Ordinance, 1938

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the
     above Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N. No. 3460/1937

First Reading         : 15 December 1937

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                      vii

Second Reading        : 14 February 1938

Notice of Amendments  : 14 February 1938

Third Reading         : 14 February 1938

Commencement          : 7 March 1938 (section 2 read with
                            the Schedule)

27. Ordinance 42 of 1939 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1939

Bill                  : G.N. No. 3193/1939

First Reading         : 16 October 1939

Second and Third Readings : 8 November 1939

Commencement          : 8 December 1939

28. Ordinance 24 of 1938 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1938

Bill                  : G.N. No. 2464/1938

First Reading         : 29 August 1938

Second and Third Readings : 31 October 1938

Commencement          : 15 December 1939

29. Ordinance 22 of 1940 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1940

Bill                  : G.N. No. 210/1940

First Reading         : 12 February 1940

Second Reading        : 22 April 1940

Notice of Amendments  : 22 April 1940

Third Reading         : 22 April 1940

Commencement          : 11 May 1940

30. Ordinance 13 of 1941 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1941

Bill                  : G.N. No. 104/1941

First Reading         : 20 January 1941

Second and Third Readings : 28 April 1941

Commencement          : 17 May 1941

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                      viii

31. Ordinance 4 of 1952 — Merchant Shipping (Sunday
                                    Labour — Amendment) Ordinance, 1952

Bill                  : G.N. No. S 447/1951

First Reading         : 20 November 1951

Second Reading        : 20 February 1952

Notice of Amendments  : 20 February 1952

Third Reading         : 20 February 1952

Commencement          : 1 January 1949

32. Ordinance 25 of 1948 — Merchant Shipping (Registration and Supply of
                                     Seamen — Amendment) Ordinance, 1948

Bill                  : G.N. No. S 241/1948

First Reading         : 17 August 1948

Second Reading        : 14 September 1948

Notice of Amendments  : 14 September 1948

Third Reading         : 14 September 1948

Commencement          : 2 January 1949

33. Ordinance 11 of 1950 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1950

Bill                  : G.N. No. S 6/1950

First Reading         : 22 February 1950

Second Reading        : 21 March 1950

Notice of Amendments  : 21 March 1950

Commencement          : 28 March 1950

34. Ordinance 6 of 1954 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1954

Bill                  : 7/1954

First Reading         : 17 March 1954

Second Reading        : 13 April 1954

Third Reading         : 18 May 1954

Commencement          : 1 August 1954

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                      ix

35. Ordinance 25 of 1954 — Merchant Shipping (Seamen’s Lodging-Houses
                                     — Amendment) Ordinance, 1954

Bill                  : 26/1954

First Reading         : 17 August 1954

Second Reading        : 21 September 1954

Third Reading         : 12 October 1954

Commencement          : 28 October 1954

36. Ordinance 37 of 1952 — Law Revision (Penalties Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1952

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with item 45 of the Schedule to the
     above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 32/1952

First Reading         : 16 September 1952

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 1952

Commencement          : 30 April 1955 (section 2 read with
                            item 45 of the Schedule)

37. Ordinance 16 of 1953 — Merchant Shipping (Manning
                                      Scales — Amendment) Ordinance, 1953

Bill                  : 8/1953

First Reading         : 21 April 1953

Second Reading        : 19 May 1953

Notice of Amendments  : 19 May 1953

Third Reading         : 19 May 1953

Commencement          : 1 May 1955

38. G.N. No. S 265/1955 — Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1955
                                    (Consequential Provisions) (Miscellaneous)
                                    Order, 1955

Commencement          : 17 September 1955

39. 1955 Revised Edition — Merchant Shipping Ordinance (Chapter 207)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

40. Ordinance 34 of 1956 — Seafarers’ Welfare Board Ordinance, 1956
     (Amendments made by section 10 of the above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 69/1956

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                         x

First Reading            : 5 November 1956

Second and Third Readings : 20 November 1956

Commencement             : 1 February 1957 (section 10)

41. Ordinance 10 of 1957 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1957

Bill                     : 86/1957

First Reading            : 9 January 1957

Second Reading           : 13 February 1957

Third Reading            : 24 April 1957

Commencement             : 10 May 1957

42. Ordinance 11 of 1957 — Seamen’s Registry Board Ordinance, 1957
     (Amendments made by section 9 of the above Ordinance)

Bill                     : 92/1957

First and Second Readings : 13 February 1957

Select Committee Report  : Sessional Paper No. L.A. 6 of 1957

Notice of Amendments     : 26 April 1957

Third Reading            : 26 April 1957

Commencement             : 15 October 1957 (section 9)

43. Ordinance 18 of 1958 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1958

Bill                     : 134/1958

First Reading            : 22 April 1958

Second Reading           : 11 June 1958

Third Reading            : 16 July 1958

Commencement             : 1 August 1958

44. Ordinance 31 of 1958 — Legislative Assembly (Presentation of
                                      Subsidiary Legislation) Ordinance, 1958

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the
     above Ordinance)

Bill                     : 158/1958

First Reading            : 16 July 1958

Second Reading           : 13 August 1958

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                      xi

Notice of Amendments  : 10 September 1958

Third Reading         : 10 September 1958

Commencement          : 25 September 1958 (section 2 read
                            with the Schedule)

45. Ordinance 38 of 1958 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment No. 2)
                                      Ordinance, 1958

Bill                  : 172/1958

First Reading         : 10 September 1958

Second and Third Readings : 8 October 1958

Commencement          : 24 October 1958

46. Ordinance 35 of 1959 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1959

Bill                  : 213/1959

First Reading         : 3 March 1959

Second and Third Readings : 18 March 1959

Commencement          : 26 March 1959

47. G.N. No. S 223/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of Laws)
                                    Order, 1959

Commencement          : 3 June 1959

48. Ordinance 38 of 1959 — Laws of Singapore (Miscellaneous
                                       Amendments) Ordinance, 1959

     (Amendments made by section 13 of the above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 215/1959

First Reading         : 3 March 1959

Second Reading        : 18 March 1959

Notice of Amendments  : 18 March 1959

Third Reading         : 18 March 1959

Commencement          : 3 June 1959 (section 13)

49. Ordinance 62 of 1959 — State Advocate-General (Transfer of Powers)
                                      Ordinance, 1959

     (Amendments made by section 5 read with the Schedule to the
     above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 22/1959

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                      xii

First Reading         : 13 August 1959

Second and Third Readings : 2 September 1959

Commencement          : 11 September 1959 (section 5 read
                            with the Schedule)

50. Ordinance 72 of 1959 — Transfer of Powers (No. 2) Ordinance, 1959
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the First Schedule to the
     above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 31/1959

First Reading         : 22 September 1959

Second Reading        : 11 November 1959

Notice of Amendments  : 11 November 1959

Third Reading         : 11 November 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959 (section 2 read
                            with the First Schedule)

51. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 177/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 3) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

52. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 178/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 4) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

53. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 179/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 5) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

54. Ordinance 74 of 1959 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment No. 2)
                                      Ordinance, 1959

Bill                  : 38/1959

First Reading         : 11 November 1959

Second and Third Readings : 14 December 1959

Commencement          : 24 December 1959

55. Ordinance 3 of 1960 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1960

Bill                  : 213/1959

First Reading         : 3 March 1959

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                      xiii

Second and Third Readings : 18 March 1959

Commencement          : 15 February 1960

56. Ordinance 32 of 1960 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment No. 2)
                                      Ordinance, 1960

Bill                  : Information not available

First and Second Readings : 11 May 1960

Notice of Amendments  : 11 May 1960

Third Reading         : 11 May 1960

Commencement          : 1 June 1960

57. Ordinance 32 of 1961 — Courts (Admiralty Jurisdiction)
                                      Ordinance, 1961

     (Amendments made by section 8(1) of the above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 153/1961

First Reading         : 20 November 1961

Second and Third Readings : 16 December 1961

Commencement          : 15 January 1962 (section 8(1))

58. Ordinance 12 of 1962 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1962

Bill                  : 171/1962

First Reading         : 14 March 1962

Second and Third Readings : 26 March 1962

Commencement          : 6 April 1962

59. Ordinance 28 of 1963 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1963

Bill                  : 4/1963

First Reading         : 28 November 1963

Second and Third Readings : 19 December 1963

Commencement          : 1 May 1964

60. Ordinance 36 of 1963 — Port of Singapore Authority Ordinance, 1963
     (Amendments made by section 131(2) of the above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 3/1963

First Reading         : 28 November 1963

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                      xiv

Second Reading        : 19 December 1963

Notice of Amendments  : 19 December 1963

Commencement          : 1 May 1964 (section 131(2))

61. Act 26 of 1966 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment) Act, 1966

Bill                  : 24/1966

First Reading         : 22 June 1966

Second and Third Readings : 17 August 1966

Commencement          : 2 September 1966

62. Act 44 of 1968 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment) Act, 1968

Bill                  : 53/1968

First Reading         : 9 December 1968

Second and Third Readings : 23 December 1968

Commencement          : 31 January 1969

63. Act 14 of 1969 — Statute Law Revision Act, 1969
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the First Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 22/1969

First Reading         : 15 October 1969

Second Reading        : 22 December 1969

Notice of Amendments  : 22 December 1969

Third Reading         : 22 December 1969

Commencement          : 2 January 1970 (section 2 read with
                            the First Schedule)

64. Act 22 of 1970 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment) Act, 1970

Bill                  : 16/1970

First Reading         : 7 May 1970

Second and Third Readings : 21 May 1970

Commencement          : 18 September 1970

65. Act 56 of 1970 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment No. 2) Act, 1970

Bill                  : 44/1970

First Reading         : 4 November 1970

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
               xv

Second and Third Readings : 30 December 1970

Commencement   : 26 February 1971

66. 1970 Revised Edition — Merchant Shipping Act (Chapter 172)

Operation      : 31 May 1971

67. Act 21 of 1972 — National Maritime Board Act, 1972
     (Amendments made by section 27 of the above Act)

Bill           : 18/1972

First Reading  : 16 March 1972

Second and Third Readings : 27 March 1972

Commencement   : 1 January 1973 (section 27)

68. Act 11 of 1973 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment) Act, 1973

Bill           : 3/1973

First Reading  : 16 February 1973

Second and Third Readings : 7 March 1973

Commencement   : 1 April 1973

69. Act 21 of 1973 — Statutes of the Republic of Singapore (Miscellaneous
                             Amendments) Act, 1973

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above Act)

Bill           : 16/1973

First Reading  : 7 March 1973

Second and Third Readings : 20 March 1973

Commencement   : 6 April 1973 (section 2 read with
                     the Schedule)

70. Act 4 of 1977 — National Maritime Board (Amendment) Act, 1977
     (Amendments made by section 3 of the above Act)

Bill           : 5/1977

First Reading  : 27 May 1977

Second and Third Readings : 29 June 1977

Commencement   : 2 September 1977 (section 3)

71. G.N. No. S 243/1980 — Metrication (Merchant Shipping Act)
                                    Order, 1980

Commencement   : 1 September 1980

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
               xvi

72. Act 6 of 1981 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment) Act, 1981

Bill           : 2/1981

First Reading  : 17 February 1981

Second and Third Readings : 6 March 1981

Commencement   : 16 June 1981

73. Act 2 of 1986 — Statute Law Revision Act 1986
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the First Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 12/1985

First Reading  : 31 October 1985

Second and Third Readings : 10 January 1986

Commencement   : 31 January 1986 (section 2 read with
                     the First Schedule)

74. Act 38 of 1984 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment) Act 1984

Bill           : 33/1984

First Reading  : 19 October 1984

Second and Third Readings : 20 November 1984

Commencement   : 1 August 1986

75. Act 25 of 1986 — Port of Singapore Authority (Amendment) Act 1986
     (Amendments made by section 64 of the above Act)

Bill           : 19/1986

First Reading  : 29 July 1986

Second and Third Readings : 25 August 1986

Commencement   : 1 October 1986 (section 64)

76. Act 32 of 1986 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1986
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with item (3) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 24/1986

First Reading  : 27 October 1986

Second and Third Readings : 9 December 1986

Commencement   : 23 January 1987 (section 2 read with
                     item (3) of the Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                         xvii

77. 1985 Revised Edition — Merchant Shipping Act (Chapter 179)

Operation                : 30 March 1987

78. Act 16 of 1993 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 1993
     (Amendments made by section 29(5) read with item (11) of the Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                     : 12/1993

First Reading            : 26 February 1993

Second Reading           : 12 April 1993

Notice of Amendments     : 12 April 1993

Third Reading            : 12 April 1993

Commencement             : 1 July 1993 (section 29(5) read with
                               item (11) of the Schedule)

79. Act 15 of 1995 — Bankruptcy Act 1995
     (Amendments made by section 167(4) read with item (12) of the
     Second Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                     : 16/1994

First Reading            : 25 July 1994

Second Reading           : 25 August 1994

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 1 of 1995

Third Reading            : 23 March 1995

Commencement             : 15 July 1995 (section 167(4) read with
                               item (12) of the Second Schedule)

                                PART 2
               MERCHANT SHIPPING ACT 1995

                    (2020 REVISED EDITION)

80. Act 19 of 1995 — Merchant Shipping Act 1995

Bill                     : 14/1995

First Reading            : 13 March 1995

Second and Third Readings : 25 May 1995

Commencement             : 2 February 1996

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                      xviii

81. Act 7 of 1996 — Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore Act 1996
     (Amendments made by section 121(4) read with item (11) of the
     Fourth Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 46/1995

First Reading         : 5 December 1995

Second and Third Readings : 18 January 1996

Commencement          : 2 February 1996 (section 121(4) read
                            with item (11) of the Fourth Schedule)

82. 1996 Revised Edition — Merchant Shipping Act (Chapter 179)

Operation             : 30 April 1996

83. Act 56 of 2004 — Merchant Shipping (Amendment) Act 2004

Bill                  : 53/2004

First Reading         : 19 October 2004

Second Reading        : 16 November 2004

Notice of Amendments  : 16 November 2004

Third Reading         : 16 November 2004

Commencement          : 25 January 2005 (except sections 3, 4
                            and 5)
                            1 May 2005 (sections 3, 4 and 5)

84. Act 8 of 2005 — Diplomatic and Consular Relations Act 2005
     (Amendments made by section 11 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 65/2004

First Reading         : 16 November 2004

Second and Third Readings : 25 January 2005

Commencement          : 1 May 2005 (section 11)

85. Act 42 of 2005 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) Act 2005
     (Amendments made by section 5 read with item (24) of the First Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                  : 30/2005

First Reading         : 17 October 2005

Second and Third Readings : 21 November 2005

Commencement          : 1 January 2006 (section 5 read with
                            item (24) of the First Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                xix

86. Act 5 of 2008 — Workmen’s Compensation (Amendment) Act 2008
     (Amendments made by section 40 read with item (11) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill            : 50/2007

First Reading   : 12 November 2007

Second and Third Readings : 22 January 2008

Commencement    : 1 April 2008 (section 40 read with
                      item (11) of the Schedule)

87. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 61 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill            : 11/2010

First Reading   : 26 April 2010

Second Reading  : 18 May 2010

Third Reading   : 19 May 2010

Commencement    : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                      item 61 of the Sixth Schedule)

88. Act 6 of 2014 — Merchant Shipping (Maritime Labour Convention)
                           Act 2014

     (Amendments made by section 84 of the above Act)

Bill            : 27/2013

First Reading   : 11 November 2013

Second and Third Readings : 21 January 2014

Commencement    : 1 April 2014 (section 84)

89. Act 25 of 2017 — Merchant Shipping (Wreck Removal) Act 2017
     (Amendments made by section 32 of the above Act)

Bill            : 19/2017

First Reading   : 3 April 2017

Second and Third Readings : 8 May 2017

Commencement    : 8 September 2017 (section 32)

90. Act 3 of 2019 — Merchant Shipping (Miscellaneous Amendments)
                           Act 2019

Bill            : 49/2018

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                      xx

First Reading         : 19 November 2018

Second and Third Readings : 14 January 2019

Commencement          : 1 April 2019 (sections 2, 3, 4 and 15)
                            29 December 2019 (sections 5(a), 6, 8
                            and 16(b) and (c))
                            24 July 2021 (sections 5(b), 7, 9 to 14,
                            16(a) and (d), 17, 18 and 19)

91. G.N. No. S 816/2019 — Merchant Shipping Act (Amendment of
                                    Schedule) Order 2019

Commencement          : 29 December 2019

92. Act 27 of 2019 — Work Injury Compensation Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 83(9)(c) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 21/2019

First Reading         : 5 August 2019

Second and Third Readings : 3 September 2019

Commencement          : 1 September 2020 (section 83(9)(c))

93. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 29(9) and section 28(1) read with item 99 of
     the Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 99 of the Schedule)
                            24 July 2021 (section 29(9)(c))

94. G.N. No. S 1018/2020 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act
                                    2019 (Consequential Amendments to Other
                                    Acts) Order 2020

Commencement          : 2 January 2021

95. Act 27 of 2020 — High Court (Admiralty Jurisdiction) (Amendment) Act
                           2020

     (Amendments made by section 3 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 23/2020

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
               xxi

First Reading  : 4 May 2020

Second and Third Readings : 26 May 2020

Commencement   : 24 July 2021 (section 3)

96. 2020 Revised Edition — Merchant Shipping Act 1995

Operation      : 31 December 2021

97. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 160 of the above Act)

Bill           : 18/2021

First Reading  : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement   : 1 April 2022

98. Act 17 of 2021 — Registration of Births and Deaths Act 2021

Bill           : 13/2021

First Reading  : 10 May 2021

Second and Third Readings : 6 July 2021

Commencement   : 29 May 2022

99. Act 12 of 2023 — Misuse of Drugs (Amendment) Act 2023
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 9/2023

First Reading  : 24 February 2023

Second and Third Readings : 21 March 2023

Commencement   : 1 June 2024

100. Act 5 of 2025 — Electronic Gazette and Legislation Act 2025

Bill           : 47/2024

First Reading  : 11 November 2024

Second and Third Readings : 7 January 2025

Commencement   : 9 March 2025

101. Act 17 of 2025 — Transport Sector (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act
                              2025

      (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 12/2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
               xxii

First Reading  : 26 September 2025

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 2025

Commencement   : 1 February 2026

102. Act 9 of 2026 — Tobacco (Control of Advertisements and Sale)
                             (Amendment) and Other Matters Act 2026

Bill           : 3/2026

First Reading  : 12 February 2026

Second and Third Readings : 6 March 2026

Commencement   : 1 May 2026

               Abbreviations

.              (updated on 29 August 2022)
               Gazette Notification
G.N.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
G.N. Sp.       Legislative Assembly
L.A.           Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
L.N.           Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
M.             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
               Malaysia)
Parl.          Parliament
S              Subsidiary Legislation
S.I.           Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
S.S.G.G.       Straits Settlements Government Gazette
S.S.G.G. (E)   Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
      COMPARATIVE TABLE
MERCHANT SHIPPING ACT 1995

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    1996 Ed.
52—(2)                     52—(1A)

   (3)                        (2)
   (4)                        (3)
70—(2)                     70—(1A)
   (3)                        (2)
   (4)                        (3)
   (5)                        (4)
107—(2)                    107—(1A)
   (3)                        (2)
136—(2)                    136—(1A)
   (3)                        (2)
   (4)                        (3)
144—(1) and (2)            144
197—(2) and (3)            197—(2)
FIRST SCHEDULE             THE SCHEDULE

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
