THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                 NATIONAL PRODUCTIVITY
                          FUND ACT 2010

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
                                                              2020 Ed.

National Productivity
   Fund Act 2010

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

                    NATIONAL PRODUCTIVITY FUND

3. Establishment of National Productivity Fund
4. Purposes of Fund
5. Withdrawals
6. Transfer of money upon dissolution

                                        PART 3

                ESTABLISHMENT, INCORPORATION AND
                          CONSTITUTION OF BOARD

 7. Establishment and incorporation of Productivity Fund
         Administration Board

 8. Common seal
 9. Constitution of Board
10. Functions and duties of Board
11. Powers of Board
12. Appointment of committees and delegation of powers
13. Symbol or representation of Board

                                        PART 4
                   STAFF AND FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
14. Appointment of Executive Secretaries and other employees
15. Protection from personal liability

                                                      1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
          National Productivity

2020 Ed.  Fund Act 2010                                             2

Section   Public servants
          Preservation of secrecy
   16.    Bank accounts
   17.    Annual estimates
   18.    Investments
   19.    Financial provisions
   20.    Annual financial statements, etc.
   21.    Annual report
   22.
   23.

                                        PART 5

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

24. Powers to obtain information and call for return
25. Penalty for obstructing Board in carrying out duties
26. Forgery of certificates, false or misleading information,

         statement or document
27. Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
28. Composition of offences
29. Regulations

         First Schedule — Constitution and proceedings of Board
         Second Schedule — Powers of Board
         Third Schedule — Financial provisions

An Act to establish the National Productivity Fund and to establish
  the Productivity Fund Administration Board for its proper
  administration.

                                                           [1 November 2010]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the National Productivity Fund Act 2010.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
                National Productivity

3               Fund Act 2010                                2020 Ed.

Interpretation

   2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

   “Board” means the Productivity Fund Administration Board
      established under section 7;

   “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Board;

   “Executive Secretary” means any Executive Secretary of the
      Board appointed under section 14(1) and includes any person
      acting in that capacity;

   “Fund” means the National Productivity Fund established under
      section 3;

   “invest” includes entering into a transaction or an arrangement
      for the protection of investments;

   “matters relating to productivity enhancement and continuing
      education” includes legislative or administrative action
      taken, or to be taken, by the Government or any public
      authority that affects or might affect the productivity
      performance of industry, industry development or the
      productivity performance of the Singapore economy as a
      whole;

   “member” means any member of the Board and includes any
      temporary member of the Board;

   “property” means any legal or equitable estate or interest
      (whether present or future and whether vested or contingent)
      in real or personal property of any description;

   “public authority” means any board, authority or agency
      established by or under any public Act to perform or
      discharge any public function.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
          National Productivity

2020 Ed.  Fund Act 2010                                             4

          PART 2

          NATIONAL PRODUCTIVITY FUND

Establishment of National Productivity Fund

 3.—(1) A fund called the National Productivity Fund is established,
into which must be paid —

(a) all moneys from time to time appropriated from the
     Consolidated Fund and authorised to be paid into the Fund
     by this Act or any other written law;

(b) all investments out of moneys in the Fund authorised to be
     made by this Act and the proceeds of any of those
     investments, including the net income from those
     investments;

(ba) all moneys paid to or recovered by the Board (whether
      pursuant to any contract entered into, any legal action
      taken, or otherwise) in connection with the provision of
      any financing, incentive or grant from the Fund;

                                                                       [Act 29 of 2023 wef 18/09/2023]

 (c) all composition sums paid under section 28; and

(d) all moneys received by the Board by way of charges and
     fees for services rendered by the Board to any person.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(b), the net income from
investments is the amount ascertained by adding to, or deducting
from, the income received from investments of moneys in the Fund
any profit derived or loss sustained (as the case may be) from the
realisation of those investments.

Purposes of Fund

 4.—(1) The moneys in the Fund may be withdrawn and applied for
all or any of the following purposes only:

       (a) the provision (whether directly or through an intermediary)
            of financing (but not loans) or incentives (including grants
            and scholarships) to any public authority, enterprise,
            educational institution or other person (whether in
            Singapore or elsewhere) undertaking or facilitating any

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
   National Productivity

5  Fund Act 2010                                             2020 Ed.

         programme on matters relating to productivity
         enhancement and continuing education;

                                                                          [Act 29 of 2023 wef 18/09/2023]

   (aa) the provision of grants (whether directly or through an
         intermediary) to any enterprise, for the purpose of —

   (i) making investments in Singapore; or

   (ii) carrying out economic activities in Singapore,

   (aa) in order to develop the Singapore economy or any part
         thereof;

                                                                          [Act 29 of 2023 wef 18/09/2023]

    (b) the payment of expenses incurred by the Board in the
         performance of its functions and the discharge of its duties
         under this Act, including any remuneration or allowances
         payable to the members of the Board who are not public
         officers;

   (c) the payment of all expenses incidental to or arising from
       the administration, investment and management of moneys
       in the Fund.

 (2) Except as otherwise provided by this section, a payment must
not be made out of the Fund unless the payment is authorised by the
Board.

Withdrawals

 5. Moneys must not be withdrawn from the Fund unless they are
charged upon the Fund or are authorised to be withdrawn under this
Act.

Transfer of money upon dissolution

 6. Upon dissolution of the Fund during any term of office of the
Government (within the meaning of the Constitution), the balance of
the moneys remaining in that Fund must be transferred to the
Consolidated Fund and be added to the reserves of the Government
not accumulated by it during that term of office.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
          National Productivity

2020 Ed.  Fund Act 2010                                             6

          PART 3

          ESTABLISHMENT, INCORPORATION AND
                   CONSTITUTION OF BOARD

Establishment and incorporation of Productivity Fund
Administration Board

 7. A body called the Productivity Fund Administration Board is
established, which is a body corporate with perpetual succession and
is, by that name, capable of —

(a) suing and being sued;

(b) acquiring, owning, holding and developing or disposing of
     property, both movable and immovable; and

          (c) doing and suffering any other acts or things that bodies
              corporate may lawfully do and suffer.

Common seal

 8.—(1) The Board must have a common seal and the seal may be
broken, changed, altered or made anew as the Board thinks fit.

 (2) All deeds, documents and other instruments requiring the seal of
the Board must be sealed with the common seal of the Board in the
presence of any 2 officers of the Board duly authorised by the Board
to act in that behalf and must be signed by those officers.

 (3) All courts, judges and persons acting judicially are to take
judicial notice of the common seal of the Board affixed to any
document and presume that it was duly affixed.

 (4) The Board may by resolution or otherwise appoint an employee
of the Board or any other agent, either generally or in a particular
case, to execute or sign on behalf of the Board any agreement or other
instrument not under seal in relation to any matter coming within the
powers of the Board.

Constitution of Board
 9.—(1) The Board consists of the following members:
       (a) a Chairperson; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
   National Productivity

7  Fund Act 2010                                             2020 Ed.

   (b) not less than 3 but not more than 6 other members as the
        Minister may determine.

 (2) The First Schedule has effect with respect to the Board, its
members and proceedings.

Functions and duties of Board

 10.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the functions and
duties of the Board are —

       (a) to evaluate and review the proposals relating to the usage
            of the moneys in the Fund;

       (b) to approve the payment of money from the Fund for the
            purposes set out in section 4;

       (c) to manage and administer the Fund in accordance with this
            Act; and

       (d) to carry out any other functions imposed upon the Board by
            or under this Act or any other written law.

 (2) The Board may undertake any other functions that the Minister
may assign to the Board and in so doing, the Board is deemed to be
fulfilling the purposes of this Act, and the provisions of this Act apply
to the Board in respect of those functions.

 (3) Nothing in this section imposes on the Board, directly or
indirectly, any form of duty or liability enforceable by proceedings
before any court to which it would not otherwise be subject.

Powers of Board

 11.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board may carry
on any activities that appear to the Board to be advantageous,
necessary or convenient for it to carry on for or in connection with the
performance of its functions and the discharge of its duties under this
Act or any other written law and, in particular, the Board may
exercise any of the powers specified in the Second Schedule.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), the Board may, with the Minister’s
approval, carry on such other activities incidental to the performance
of its functions and the discharge of its duties under this Act or any

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
          National Productivity

2020 Ed.  Fund Act 2010                                             8

other written law as the Board may, from time to time, consider
expedient.

 (3) The Board must provide the Minister with information with
respect to its property and activities in such manner and at such times
as the Minister may require.

 (4) This section does not limit any power of the Board conferred by
or under any other written law.

Appointment of committees and delegation of powers

 12.—(1) The Board may appoint from among its members or from
other persons who are not members any number of committees that it
thinks fit for purposes which, in the opinion of the Board, would be
better regulated and managed by means of those committees,
including but not limited to providing advice and guidance to the
Board on the evaluation and review of the proposals relating to the
usage of the moneys in the Fund.

 (2) The Board may, subject to any conditions or restrictions that it
thinks fit, delegate to any committee appointed under subsection (1)
or to the Chairperson or any Executive Secretary or to any other
member, officer or employee of the Board, any of the functions,
duties or powers of the Board under this Act or any other written law,
except —

       (a) the power of delegation conferred by this section;

       (b) the power to make any subsidiary legislation; and

       (c) the power to borrow money.

 (3) Any function, duty or power delegated under subsection (2) to
any committee or person may be performed, discharged or exercised
by the committee or person to whom it has been delegated in the name
and on behalf of the Board.

 (4) No delegation under this section prevents the performance,
discharge or exercise of any function, duty or power by the Board.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
   National Productivity

9  Fund Act 2010                                             2020 Ed.

Symbol or representation of Board

 13.—(1) The Board has the exclusive right to the use of any symbol
or representation that the Board may select or devise and to display or
exhibit that symbol or representation in connection with its activities
or affairs.

   (2) Any person who uses a symbol or representation which —

   (a) is identical with that of the Board; or

   (b) so resembles the Board’s symbol or representation as to
        deceive or cause confusion, or to be likely to deceive or
        cause confusion,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to —

   (c) a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term
       not exceeding 6 months or to both; and

   (d) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
        exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day during which
        the offence continues after conviction.

                                    PART 4

               STAFF AND FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Appointment of Executive Secretaries and other employees

 14.—(1) The Board must appoint one or more Executive
Secretaries on such terms and conditions as the Board may determine.

 (2) Each Executive Secretary —

       (a) is known by such designation as the Board may determine;
            and

       (b) is responsible to the Board for the proper administration
            and management of the functions and affairs of the Board
            in accordance with the policy laid down by the Board.

 (3) If any Executive Secretary is temporarily absent from Singapore
or temporarily incapacitated by reason of illness or for any other
reason temporarily unable to perform his or her duties, another person

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
          National Productivity

2020 Ed.  Fund Act 2010                                             10

may be appointed by the Board to act in the place of the Executive
Secretary during that period of absence from duty.

 (4) The Board may, from time to time, appoint and employ on such
terms and conditions as the Board may determine such officers and
employees as may be necessary for the effective performance of its
functions and discharge of its duties under this Act or any other
written law.

Protection from personal liability

 15.—(1) No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie personally
against any member, officer or employee of the Board or any other
person acting under the direction of the Board for anything which is
in good faith done or intended to be done in the execution or
purported execution of this Act or any other written law conferring or
imposing a function or power or imposing a duty on the Board.

 (2) Where the Board provides a service to the public by which
information is supplied to the public pursuant to any written law,
neither the members of the Board nor any of its officers or employees
involved in the supply of the information shall be liable for any loss or
damage suffered by any member of the public by reason of any error
or omission of any nature appearing therein or however caused if
made in good faith and in the ordinary course of the discharge of the
duties of such member, officer or employee.

Public servants

 16. All members, officers and employees of the Board are deemed
to be public servants for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

Preservation of secrecy

 17.—(1) Except for the purpose of the performance of his or her
duties or the exercise of his or her functions or when lawfully
required to do so by any court or under the provisions of any written
law, a person who is or has been —

       (a) a member, or an officer, employee, adviser or agent, of the
            Board; or

       (b) a member of a committee of the Board,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
    National Productivity

11  Fund Act 2010                                             2020 Ed.

must not disclose any information relating to the affairs of the Board
or of any other person which has been obtained by the person in the
performance of his or her duties or the exercise of his or her functions
under this Act.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

Bank accounts

 18.—(1) The Board must open and maintain one or more accounts
with any bank or banks that the Board thinks fit.

 (2) Every such account must be operated by such person or persons
authorised to do so by the Board.

Annual estimates

 19.—(1) The Board must, in every financial year, prepare or cause
to be prepared and must adopt annual estimates of income and
expenditure of the Board for the ensuing financial year.

 (2) Supplementary estimates may be adopted by the Board at any of
its meetings.

 (3) A copy of all annual estimates and supplementary estimates
must, upon their adoption by the Board, be sent immediately to the
Minister.

 (4) The Minister may approve or disallow any item or portion of
any item shown in the estimates, and must return the estimates as
amended by him or her to the Board, and the Board is bound thereby.

Investments

 20. The Board may —

       (a) invest the Fund in any manner that it thinks fit; and

       (b) engage in any financial activity or participate in any
            financial arrangement for the purpose of managing or
            hedging against any financial risk that arises or is likely to
            arise from the investment.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
                      National Productivity

2020 Ed.              Fund Act 2010                                 12

Financial provisions

 21. The financial provisions set out in the Third Schedule have
effect with respect to the Board.

Annual financial statements, etc.

 22.—(1) The Board must, as soon as its accounts and financial
statements have been audited in accordance with the provisions of
this Act, send to the Minister a copy of the audited financial
statements, signed by the Chairperson and an Executive Secretary,
together with a copy of the auditor’s report.

 (2) Where the Auditor‑General is not the auditor of the Board, a
copy of the audited financial statements and any report made by the
auditor must be forwarded to the Auditor‑General at the same time
they are submitted to the Board.

 (3) The Minister must, as soon as practicable, cause a copy of the
audited financial statements and of the auditor’s report mentioned in
subsection (1) to be presented to Parliament.

Annual report

 23.—(1) The Board must, as soon as practicable after the end of
each financial year, cause to be prepared and transmitted to the
Minister a report dealing generally with the activities of the Board
during the preceding financial year and containing any information
relating to the proceedings and policy of the Board that the Minister
may direct.

 (2) The Minister must, as soon as practicable, cause a copy of every
such report to be presented to Parliament.

                                    PART 5

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Powers to obtain information and call for return

 24.—(1) The Board or any officer, employee or agent of the Board
authorised by the Board in that behalf may by written notice require
any person to provide, within the time specified in the notice, any

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
    National Productivity

13  Fund Act 2010                                             2020 Ed.

information or document that may be required by the Board or the
officer, employee or agent of the Board (as the case may be) for the
purpose of inquiring into or ascertaining —

       (a) the truth or correctness of any statement which has been
            made, or of any information which has been given, by a
            person who has applied for any financing, incentive or
            grant from the Board; or

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2023 wef 18/09/2023]

       (b) whether any financing, incentive or grant from the Board
            has been properly applied by the person to whom it was
            provided.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2023 wef 18/09/2023]

 (2) The Board or any officer, employee or agent of the Board
authorised by the Board in that behalf has at all times full and free
access to all lands, buildings, places, books, documents and other
papers for any of the purposes of this Act and may for any such
purpose inspect, make copies of or take extracts from those books,
documents or papers, or take possession of any of those books,
documents or papers, if, in the opinion of the Board or the person so
authorised —

    (a) the inspection or copying of or extraction from the books,
         documents or papers cannot reasonably be performed
         without taking possession of them;

    (b) the books, documents or papers may be interfered with or
         destroyed unless possession of them is taken; or

    (c) the books, documents or papers may be required as
        evidence in any proceedings instituted or commenced for
        any of the purposes of, or in connection with, this Act.

Penalty for obstructing Board in carrying out duties

 25. Any person who at any time hinders or obstructs the Board or
any officer, employee or agent of the Board acting in the discharge of
their duties under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
                     National Productivity

2020 Ed.             Fund Act 2010                                  14

Forgery of certificates, false or misleading information,
statement or document

26. If any person —

(a) forges or counterfeits any document or certificate required
     by the Board for the purposes of this Act;

(b) gives any information required by the Board for the
     purposes of this Act knowing it to be false in any material
     particular; or

       (c) obtains any financing, incentive or grant from the Fund
            under this Act by means of any false or misleading
            statement or any document that is false or misleading in
            any material particular,

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2023 wef 18/09/2023]

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 27.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer; or

       (b) to be attributable to any act or default on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            a partner; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
                       National Productivity

15                     Fund Act 2010                          2020 Ed.

    (b) to be attributable to any act or default on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by a limited
liability partnership is proved to have been committed with the
consent or connivance of, or to be attributable to any neglect on the
part of, a partner or manager of the limited liability partnership, the
partner or manager (as the case may be) as well as the partnership
shall be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly.

 (5) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

    (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
         an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
         its governing body; or

    (b) to be attributable to any act or default on the part of such an
         officer or member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(6) In this section —

    “body corporate” and “partnership” exclude a limited liability
       partnership within the meaning of the Limited Liability
       Partnerships Act 2005;

    “officer” —

    (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
         member of the committee of management, chief
         executive officer, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the body corporate and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity; and

    (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
         than a partnership), means the president, the
         secretary, or any member of the committee of the
         unincorporated association, or any person holding a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
          National Productivity

2020 Ed.  Fund Act 2010                                             16

          position analogous to that of the president, secretary
          or member of such a committee and includes any
          person purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with any modifications that the Minister
considers appropriate, to any body corporate, limited liability
partnership or unincorporated association formed or recognised
under the law of a territory outside Singapore.

Composition of offences

 28.—(1) An Executive Secretary or any officer authorised by an
Executive Secretary may compound any offence under this Act which
is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a person
reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum not
exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence; or

       (b) $2,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations to prescribe the offences which may be compounded.

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the Fund.

Regulations

 29. The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
    National Productivity

17  Fund Act 2010                                             2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                                         Section 9(2)

               CONSTITUTION AND PROCEEDINGS OF BOARD

Appointment of Chairperson and members

 1.—(1) The Chairperson and other members of the Board must be appointed by
the Minister and hold office for such period and on such terms and conditions as
the Minister may determine.

 (2) The members comprise such persons from the private sector and public
sector as the Minister thinks fit.

 (3) The Minister may appoint any Executive Secretary as a member.

Temporary Chairperson or member

 2. The Minister may appoint any person to be a temporary Chairperson or
member during the temporary incapacity from illness or otherwise, or during the
temporary absence from Singapore, of the Chairperson or any member, as the case
may be.

Revocation of appointment

 3. The Minister may, at any time, revoke the appointment of the Chairperson or
any member if the Minister considers the revocation necessary in the interest of
the effective and economical performance of the functions of the Board under this
Act or in the public interest.

Resignation

 4. A member may resign from office at any time by giving at least one month’s
written notice to the Minister.

Vacation of office
 5. The office of a member becomes vacant —

        (a) on his or her death;
        (b) if he or she becomes disqualified from membership of the Board;
        (c) if he or she is adjudicated a bankrupt;
        (d) if he or she resigns from office; or
        (e) if his or her appointment is revoked.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
                      National Productivity

2020 Ed.              Fund Act 2010                                 18

                      FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Filling of vacancies

 6. If a vacancy occurs in the membership of the Board, the Minister may, subject
to paragraph 7, appoint any person to fill the vacancy, and the person appointed
holds office for the remainder of the term for which the vacating member was
appointed.

Disqualification from membership

 7. A person must not be appointed or continue to hold office as a member if the
person —

        (a) is an undischarged bankrupt or has made any arrangement with the
             person’s creditors;

        (b) has been sentenced to imprisonment for a term exceeding 6 months
             and has not received a free pardon; or

        (c) is incapacitated by physical or mental illness.

Disclosure of interest by members

 8.—(1) A member who is in any way, directly or indirectly, interested in a
transaction or project of the Board must disclose the nature of his or her interest at
the first meeting of the Board at which he or she is present after the relevant facts
have come to his or her knowledge.

 (2) A disclosure under sub‑paragraph (1) must be recorded in the minutes of the
meeting of the Board and, after the disclosure, that member —

        (a) must not take part in any deliberation or decision of the Board with
             respect to that transaction or project; and

        (b) must be disregarded for the purpose of constituting a quorum of the
             Board for that deliberation or decision.

 (3) No act or proceedings of the Board may be questioned on the ground that a
member has contravened this paragraph.

 (4) For the purposes of this paragraph, a member whose spouse, parent, son,
adopted son, daughter or adopted daughter has an interest in the transaction or
project mentioned in sub‑paragraph (1) is deemed to be interested in that
transaction or project.

Salaries and fees payable to members of Board

 9. The members of the Board are to be paid such salaries, fees and allowances as
the Minister may from time to time determine.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
        National Productivity

19      Fund Act 2010                                             2020 Ed.

        FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Quorum

 10.—(1) At every meeting of the Board, 3 members constitute a quorum and no
business may be transacted unless a quorum is present.

 (2) The Chairperson presides at meetings of the Board, and if the Chairperson is
absent from any meeting or part of any meeting, such member as the members
present may elect presides at that meeting or part of that meeting.

 (3) A decision at a meeting of the Board is adopted by a simple majority of the
members present and voting except that, in the case of an equality of votes, the
Chairperson of the meeting has a casting vote in addition to his or her original
vote.

Transaction of business by Board outside meetings

 11.—(1) Subject to the approval of a simple majority of all the members of the
Board, the Board may transact any of its business by the circulation of papers
among members of the Board.

 (2) A member who is in any way, directly or indirectly, interested in the business
being transacted by circulation of papers must disclose the nature of the member’s
interest in writing to the Chairperson at the first opportunity after the relevant facts
have come to the member’s knowledge.

 (3) The disclosure under sub‑paragraph (2) must be recorded and treated as
having been made in accordance with paragraph 8, and that member must not take
part in the decision with respect to that transaction.

 (4) A written decision made by a simple majority of the members for the time
being entitled to take part in the decision is taken to be a decision of the Board, and
is as valid and effectual as if it had been made at a meeting of the Board duly
convened and held.

 (5) Separate copies of a written decision may be distributed for signing by the
members if the wording of the decision and approval is identical in each copy.

 (6) For the purpose of a decision under this paragraph, the Chairperson and each
member has the same voting rights as they have at any meeting of the Board.

 (7) The decision of the Board is made when the last member of the Board
required for the majority signs and the member’s decision is duly delivered to an
officer appointed by an Executive Secretary.

 (8) The Chairperson may stipulate a period of time within which a decision may
be made under this paragraph.

 (9) The Board may, if it thinks fit, deliberate on matters by the circulation of
papers among all of the members of the Board.

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
          National Productivity

2020 Ed.  Fund Act 2010                                             20

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

 (10) For the purposes of this paragraph, papers (including disclosures and
decisions) may be circulated among members or delivered to an officer appointed
by an Executive Secretary by hand or fax or electronic transmission of the
information in the papers concerned.

Vacancies
 12. The Board may act despite any vacancy in its membership.

Procedure at meetings

 13.—(1) The Chairperson or any other officer authorised by the Chairperson
must, subject to any standing orders that may be made by the Board under
sub‑paragraph (2), summon all meetings of the Board for the despatch of business.

 (2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board may make standing orders to
regulate its own procedure generally and, in particular, regarding the holding of
meetings, the notice to be given of the meetings, the proceedings at the meetings,
the keeping of minutes, the custody, production and inspection of the minutes, and
the opening, keeping, closing and auditing of accounts.

                           SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                                       Section 11(1)

                                  POWERS OF BOARD

 1. To promote and undertake publicity in any form on matters relating to
productivity enhancement and continuing education, and matters relating to the
promotion of investments or economic activities in Singapore (collectively called
in this Schedule the Fund objects).

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2023 wef 18/09/2023]

 2. To provide information resources on matters relating to the study,
development or dissemination of programmes, methods or techniques designed
to increase productivity performance of industry, industry development or the
productivity of the Singapore economy as a whole.

 3. To request information from and collaborate or cooperate with any person,
whether in Singapore or elsewhere, on any Fund object and any other subject
matter that may be necessary for the performance of the functions of the Board.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2023 wef 18/09/2023]

 4. To publish or sponsor the publication of periodicals, booklets and other
written materials, and produce or sponsor the production of films and other
audiovisual works, on matters relating to the programmes, methods or techniques
designed to increase productivity performance of industry, industry development
or the productivity of the Singapore economy as a whole.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
    National Productivity

21  Fund Act 2010                                             2020 Ed.

    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

 5. To collect, compile, analyse, publish or disseminate by any convenient means
information of a statistical nature or otherwise concerning matters relating to the
functions of the Board.

 6. To publish in the Gazette all the accreditation and certification marks of the
Board for use in relation to any function of the Board, and control the use of those
marks.

 7. To initiate and undertake or enter into contractual consultancy, research and
development projects, and conduct or commission research, pursuant to the
functions of the Board under this Act.

 8. To engage in any activity, either alone or in conjunction with other
international agencies or organisations, for the purpose of any Fund object,
including promoting increased productivity performance of industry, industry
development or the productivity of the Singapore economy as a whole and to
obtain, collect and exchange information relating to that activity.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2023 wef 18/09/2023]

 9. To provide technical, consultancy or advisory services to any Government
agency or to any other person or body in Singapore or elsewhere on any matter
related to or connected with the functions, objects or duties of the Board.

 10. To become a member or an affiliate of any international body, the functions,
objects or duties of which are similar to those of the Board.

 11. To enter into any contracts that may be necessary or expedient for the
purpose of discharging the functions and duties of the Board.

 12. To fund scholarships, make research grants or otherwise give financial or
other assistance to persons engaged in study or research into any matter relating to
productivity enhancement and continuing education.

 13. To charge fees or commissions for services rendered by the Board including
advisory, training, consultancy, certification and accreditation services or for the
use of any facility of the Board and to recover any costs and expenses incurred.

 14. To provide financial support, grant, aid or assistance to any person or
organisation for all or any of the purposes of this Act or any other written law.

 15. To provide information or issue notices relating to any matter in connection
with the functions and duties of the Board in such form or manner as the Board
may determine.

 16. To make provision for welfare benefits, gratuities, pensions, provident
funds, allowances or other superannuation benefits for employees or former
employees (or their dependents) of the Board.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
          National Productivity

2020 Ed.  Fund Act 2010                                             22

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

 17. To make provision for the training of any employee of the Board and, in that
connection, to offer scholarships to intending trainees or otherwise pay for the cost
of the training and all expenditure incidental to the training.

 18. To offer bursaries and scholarships for study at any school or institution of
higher learning to members of the public and officers or employees of the Board
and members of their families.

19. To establish and maintain offices.

 20. To do anything incidental or necessary to any of the functions, duties or
powers of the Board under this Act or any other written law.

                            THIRD SCHEDULE

                                                                                                           Section 21

                               FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
Financial year
 1. The financial year of the Board begins on 1 April and ends on 31 March of
each year.

Accounts of Board
 2.—(1) The Board must —

        (a) keep proper accounts and records of its transactions and affairs; and
        (b) do all things necessary to ensure that —

                  (i) all payments out of its moneys are correctly made and properly
                      authorised; and

                 (ii) adequate control is maintained over the assets of, or in the
                      custody of, the Board and over the expenditure incurred by the
                      Board.

 (2) The Board must —
        (a) cause to be kept proper accounts and records of all transactions and
             affairs relating to the Fund;
        (b) do all things necessary to ensure that payments out of the Fund are
             correctly made and properly authorised; and
        (c) ensure that adequate control is maintained over the assets and receipts
             of the Fund.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
    National Productivity

23  Fund Act 2010                                                  2020 Ed.

    THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

 (3) The Board must appoint an officer to be an accounting officer of the Fund
with responsibility for keeping proper accounts and records in relation thereto, and
preparing and signing a statement of the Fund’s accounts in respect of each
financial year.

Auditor

 3. The accounts of the Board must be audited by the Auditor‑General or any
other auditor that may be appointed annually by the Minister in consultation with
the Auditor‑General.

Appointment of auditor

 4. A person is not qualified for appointment as an auditor under paragraph 3
unless the person is a public accountant who is registered or deemed to be
registered under the Accountants Act 2004.

Remuneration of auditor
 5. The remuneration of the auditor must be paid out of the Fund.

Annual financial statements

 6. The Board must, as soon as practicable after the close of the financial year,
prepare and submit the financial statements in respect of that year to the auditor
who must audit and report on them.

Duties of auditor

 7. The auditor must state in the report required under paragraph 8 —

        (a) whether the financial statements show fairly the financial transactions
             and the state of affairs of the Board;

        (b) whether proper accounting and other records have been kept, including
             records of all assets of the Board whether purchased, donated or
             otherwise;

        (c) whether the receipts, expenditure and investment of moneys and the
             acquisition and disposal of assets by the Board during the financial
             year were in accordance with the provisions of this Act; and

        (d) any other matters arising from the audit that the auditor considers
             necessary.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
                  National Productivity

2020 Ed.          Fund Act 2010                                     24

                  THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

Auditor’s report

 8.—(1) The auditor must, as soon as practicable after the accounts have been
submitted for audit, send a report of the audit to the Board.

 (2) The auditor must submit such periodical and special reports to the Minister
and to the Board as may appear to the auditor to be necessary or as the Minister or
the Board may require.

Powers of auditor

 9.—(1) The auditor or any person authorised by the auditor is entitled at any
reasonable time to full and free access to all accounting and other records relating,
directly or indirectly, to the financial transactions of the Board.

 (2) The auditor or any person authorised by the auditor may make copies of, or
take extracts from, any such accounting and other records.

 (3) The auditor or any person authorised by the auditor may require any person
to provide the auditor or person authorised with any information in the possession
of that person or to which that person has access that the auditor or any duly
authorised person considers necessary for the purposes of the auditor’s or
authorised person’s functions under this Act.

Penalty for obstructing auditor

 10. Any person who fails, without any reasonable cause, to comply with any
requirement of the auditor or authorised person under paragraph 9 or who
otherwise hinders, obstructs or delays the auditor or authorised person in the
performance of the auditor’s or authorised person’s functions under this Act shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

        (a) to a fine not exceeding $1,000; and

        (b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $250
             for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
             conviction.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
                 LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

               NATIONAL PRODUCTIVITY
                       FUND ACT 2010

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 26 of 2010 — National Productivity Fund Act 2010

Bill           : 20/2010

First Reading  : 16 August 2010

Second and Third Readings : 16 September 2010

Commencement   : 1 November 2010

2. 2011 Revised Edition — National Productivity Fund Act (Chapter 199A)

Operation      : 31 December 2011

3. 2020 Revised Edition — National Productivity Fund Act 2010

Operation      : 31 December 2021

4. Act 29 of 2023 — National Productivity Fund (Amendment) Act 2023
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 24/2023

First Reading  : 4 July 2023

Second and Third Readings : 3 August 2023

Commencement   : 18 September 2023

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
.                                 ii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
   COMPARATIVE TABLE

NATIONAL PRODUCTIVITY
        FUND ACT 2010

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.         2011 Ed.
[Omitted as spent]
                           3—(3)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/9/2023
