            GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY
                      OF SINGAPORE ACT 2022

                               (No. 14 of 2022)

                           ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                                            PART 1
                                      PRELIMINARY
Section
     1. Short title and commencement
     2. Interpretation

                                            PART 2
                  FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF AUTHORITY
     3. Gambling Regulatory Authority of Singapore
     4. Authority is body corporate
     5. Functions of Authority
     6. Powers of Authority
     7. Directions of Minister, etc.
     8. Authority’s symbol, etc.

                                            PART 3
            CONSTITUTION AND MEMBERSHIP OF AUTHORITY

                 Division 1 — Appointment, resignation and removal
     9. Membership of Authority
   10. Appointment of Authority members
   11. Membership disqualification
   12. Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson
   13. Premature vacancies
   14. Acting Chairperson and members
   15. Removal of member
   16. Resignation from office
   17. Validity of acts, etc.

                   Division 2 — Terms and conditions for members
   18. Term of appointment

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
2  NO. 14 OF 2022

Section
   19. Remuneration, etc.
   20. Vacation of office

                                            PART 4

                       DECISION-MAKING BY AUTHORITY

                                   Division 1 — Meetings

   21. Procedure generally
   22. Notice of meetings
   23. Quorum
   24. Presiding at meetings
   25. Voting at meetings
   26. Execution of documents

                       Division 2 — Committees and delegation

   27. Appointment of committees
   28. Proceedings of committees
   29. Ability to delegate, etc.
   30. Power of delegate, etc.

                                            PART 5

                                 PERSONNEL MATTERS

   31. Appointment of Chief Executive
   32. Officers, etc.
   33. Public servants
   34. Preservation of secrecy
   35. Protection from personal liability

                                            PART 6

                               FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

   36. Financial year
   37. Revenue and property of Authority
   38. Bank accounts
   39. Financial accounts and records
   40. Power of investment
   41. Issue of shares, etc.
   42. Borrowing power

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
         GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY

         OF SINGAPORE                                               3

         PART 7

         GENERAL

Section  Composition of offences
         Offences by corporations
   43.   Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   44.   Service of documents
   45.   Regulations
   46.
   47.

                                        PART 8

        CONSEQUENTIAL AND RELATED AMENDMENTS TO
                                    OTHER ACTS

48. Amendment of Casino Control Act 2006
49. Amendment of Gambling Duties Act 2022
50. Amendment of Singapore Totalisator Board Act 1987
51. Consequential amendments to other Acts

                                        PART 9

               SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

52. Saving arrangements for renaming of Casino Regulatory
         Authority of Singapore

53. Saving and transitional provision for section 48
54. Other saving and transitional provisions

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
4  NO. 14 OF 2022

An Act to reconstitute the Casino Regulatory Authority of Singapore
  as the Gambling Regulatory Authority of Singapore and to modify
  the functions of the Singapore Totalisator Board, and to make
  consequential and related amendments to certain other Acts.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY

OF SINGAPORE                                               5

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act is the Gambling Regulatory Authority of Singapore
Act 2022 and comes into operation on a date that the Minister
appoints by notification in the Gazette.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “appointed day” means the date of commencement of Part 2;

      “Authority” means the Gambling Regulatory Authority of
         Singapore, which is the Casino Regulatory Authority of
         Singapore continued and renamed under section 3;

      “Casino Regulatory Authority” means the Casino Regulatory
         Authority of Singapore established under the Casino Control
         Act 2006 in force before the appointed day;

      “Chairperson”, in relation to the Authority, means the member
         of the Authority who is appointed under section 12 as the
         Chairperson of the Authority, and includes any person
         appointed under section 14 to act in that capacity;

      “Chief Executive” means the Chief Executive of the Authority
         appointed under section 31, and includes any person acting in
         that capacity;

      “committee” means a committee of the Authority appointed
         under section 27;

      “committee member” means an individual appointed to be a
         member of a committee;

      “delegate” means a person to whom the Authority under
         section 29(1) delegates the performance or exercise of any
         of its functions or powers;

      “Deputy Chairperson”, in relation to the Authority, means a
         member of the Authority who is appointed under section 12
         as a Deputy Chairperson of the Authority;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
6  NO. 14 OF 2022

   “functions”, in relation to the Authority, means functions
      conferred on the Authority by this Act or any other Act;

   “gambling” includes any of the following which is not social
      gambling:

           (a) participating in a lottery;

           (b) playing a game of chance (which includes a game
                that is partly a game of chance and partly a game
                requiring skill);

           (c) making or accepting bets or bookmaking;

   “member”, in relation to the Authority, means a member of the
      Authority appointed under section 10, and includes any
      person appointed under section 14 to act in that capacity;

   “public authority” means a body corporate established by a
      public Act for the purposes of a public function;

   “Singapore Totalisator Board” means the Singapore Totalisator
      Board established under section 3 of the Singapore
      Totalisator Board Act 1987;

   “social gambling” has the meaning given by the Gambling
      Control Act 2022;

   “subdelegate” means a person to whom a delegate under
      section 29(2) further delegates the performance or exercise
      of any of the Authority’s functions or powers.

                                    PART 2

           FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF AUTHORITY

Gambling Regulatory Authority of Singapore

 3. Despite section 48(2), the Casino Regulatory Authority of
Singapore continues to exist under this section and is renamed as
the Gambling Regulatory Authority of Singapore.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY

OF SINGAPORE                                               7

Authority is body corporate

 4.—(1) The Authority —

       (a) is a body corporate with perpetual succession;

       (b) may acquire, hold and dispose of real and personal
            property; and

       (c) may sue and be sued in its corporate name.

 (2) The Authority may use, and operate under, one or more trading
names approved by the Minister.

 (3) A trading name can be an abbreviation or adaptation of the
Authority’s corporate name, or a name other than the Authority’s
corporate name.

 (4) The Authority must cause notice of every trading name
approved under subsection (2) to be published in the Gazette; but
failure to do so does not invalidate the approval or use of that name.

Functions of Authority

 5.—(1) The Authority has the following functions:

       (a) to scrutinise, regulate and control gambling in or affecting
            Singapore to ensure that it is conducted honestly and free
            from criminal influence and exploitation;

       (b) to inquire into, and make recommendations to or otherwise
            advise the Minister on, matters relating to gambling, either
            on its own motion or upon the request of the Minister;

       (c) to research and inquire into matters relating to the control
            of gambling, including the probity and financial security
            and viability of persons involved in the management of
            gambling operations;

       (d) to work collaboratively with —

               (i) the National Council on Problem Gambling to
                   reduce the prevalence of problem gambling and the
                   severity of harm from gambling;

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 30/10/2024]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
8  NO. 14 OF 2022

              (ii) the Singapore Police Force and public authorities or
                   other persons (whether in or outside Singapore)
                   responsible for investigating and prosecuting crimes,
                   or for the regulation and control of the conduct of
                   gambling, including sharing information with them
                   for crime prevention and in circumstances where the
                   Authority reasonably suspects an offence under any
                   written law or other law may have been committed;
                   and

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 30/10/2024]

             (iii) the Ministry of Trade and Industry to ensure that any
                   casino licensed by the Authority is and remains a part
                   of an integrated resort developed on the designated
                   site on which the casino is located;

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 30/10/2024]

       (e) to foster responsible gambling and minimise the harm from
            gambling;

        (f) to set and maintain appropriate standards and levels of
            accountability for the conduct of gambling;

       (g) to perform such other functions as may be conferred on the
            Authority by any other Act.

 (2) In performing the functions conferred on the Authority by
subsection (1), the Authority must have regard to —

       (a) the need to minimise harm caused by gambling,
            particularly the adverse social effects of lawful gambling;

       (b) the promotion of probity and integrity of persons involved
            in the conduct of gambling;

       (c) the conduct, extent and character of gambling and the
            provision, use and location of gambling and like wagering
            facilities, available to people in Singapore;

       (d) the need to ensure that the public in Singapore obtains
            reasonable net benefits from the conduct of gambling; and

       (e) the maintenance of public confidence and trust that
            gambling in Singapore is conducted honestly and free
            from criminal influence and exploitation.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY

OF SINGAPORE                                               9

 (3) In addition to the functions conferred by this section, the
Authority may undertake such other functions as the Minister may
assign to the Authority, by notification in the Gazette, and in so
undertaking —

       (a) the Authority is deemed to be fulfilling the purposes of this
            Act; and

       (b) the provisions of this Act apply to the Authority in respect
            of those other functions.

 (4) Nothing in this section imposes on the Authority, directly or
indirectly, any form of duty or liability enforceable by proceedings
before any court to which the Authority would not otherwise be
subject.

 (5) In this section, “casino”, “designated site” and “integrated
resort” have the meanings given by section 2(1) of the Casino Control
Act 2006.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2024 wef 30/10/2024]

Powers of Authority

 6.—(1) The Authority has power to do all things necessary or
expedient to be done for, or in connection with, the performance of its
functions.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the powers of the Authority
include the following:

       (a) to enter into contracts, agreements or arrangements;

       (b) to acquire, develop, hold and dispose of real or personal
            property;

       (c) to appoint and act through agents;

       (d) to employ staff and engage consultants;

       (e) to publish or provide any information, or publish or
            sponsor the publication of works;

        (f) with the approval of the Minister, to form or join in the
            formation of a company, an association, a trust or a
            partnership or enter into a joint venture with any person;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
10  NO. 14 OF 2022

       (g) to be a member of a company, an association, a trust or a
            partnership;

       (h) to charge for the provision of goods or services, or the
            performance of work, by or on behalf of the Authority;

        (i) to waive the payment of fees and charges payable to the
            Authority;

        (j) to accept gifts, grants, bequests and devises made to the
            Authority, and act as trustee of money and other property
            vested in the Authority on trust;

       (k) to do any other thing that is incidental or conducive to the
            performance of its functions.

 (3) To avoid doubt, subsection (1) does not limit any other power
given to the Authority by any other provision in this Act or by any
other Act.

 (4) The Authority may exercise its powers inside or outside
Singapore.

Directions of Minister, etc.

 7.—(1) The Minister may give to the Authority any direction under
section 5 of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

 (2) To avoid doubt, the Minister is entitled —

       (a) to have information in the possession of the Authority; and

       (b) where the information is in or on a document, to have, and
            make and retain copies of, that document.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), the Minister may request the
Authority —

       (a) to provide information to the Minister; or

       (b) to give the Minister access to information.

 (4) The Authority must comply with a request under subsection (3).

 (5) In this section —

      “document” includes any tape, disk or other device or medium
         on which information is recorded or stored;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY

OF SINGAPORE                                               11

      “information” means information specified, or of a description
         specified, by the Minister that relates to the functions of the
         Authority.

Authority’s symbol, etc.

 8.—(1) The Authority has the exclusive right to the use of one or
more symbols or representations as the Authority may select or
devise (each called the Authority’s symbol or representation), and to
display or exhibit those symbols or representations in connection
with the Authority’s activities or affairs.

 (2) A person who —

       (a) uses, without the prior written permission of the Authority,
            a symbol or representation identical with the Authority’s
            symbol or representation; or

       (b) uses a symbol or representation which so resembles the
            Authority’s symbol or representation as to deceive or cause
            confusion, or to be likely to deceive or to cause confusion,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

                                    PART 3
    CONSTITUTION AND MEMBERSHIP OF AUTHORITY

         Division 1 — Appointment, resignation and removal
Membership of Authority

 9.—(1) The Authority consists of at least 5 and not more than
17 members.

 (2) One of the members (who is not the Chairperson) may be the
Chief Executive.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
12  NO. 14 OF 2022

Appointment of Authority members

 10.—(1) Each member of the Authority is to be appointed by the
Minister.

 (2) Every appointment must be made by instrument in writing
given to the member.

 (3) The instrument must state —

       (a) the term of the appointment; and

       (b) the date the appointment takes effect, which must not be a
            date earlier than the date the instrument is received by the
            member.

Membership disqualification

 11.—(1) In appointing members of the Authority, the Minister must
have regard to whether the members of the Authority will collectively
possess the appropriate knowledge, skills and experience for the
Authority to perform its functions effectively.

 (2) However, the following individuals are disqualified from being
a member of the Authority:

       (a) an undischarged bankrupt or an individual who has an
            arrangement with any of his or her creditors;

       (b) a Judge or judicial officer;

       (c) an individual who has been sentenced to imprisonment for
            a term of 6 months or more, and has not received a free
            pardon;

       (d) an individual who is —

               (i) disqualified under section 154(1) of the Companies
                   Act 1967 from acting as a director, or taking part
                   (whether directly or indirectly) in the management,
                   of a company during the period of disqualification in
                   that section; or

              (ii) disqualified from being a director or in any way,
                   whether directly or indirectly, being concerned in, or
                   from taking part in, the management of a company

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY

OF SINGAPORE                                               13

                   by a court order under section 149(1), 149A(1) or
                   154(2) of the Companies Act 1967 during the period
                   of disqualification in the court order;

       (e) an individual —

               (i) who lacks capacity in respect of his or her duties as a
                   member within the meaning of the Mental Capacity
                   Act 2008; or

              (ii) in respect of whom an order is made under section 10
                   of the Mental Health (Care and Treatment) Act 2008.

Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson

 12.—(1) The Minister may, by instrument in writing, appoint —

       (a) a member (other than the Chief Executive) to be the
            Chairperson of the Authority for the period specified in the
            instrument; and

       (b) one or more members (other than the Chairperson) to be a
            Deputy Chairperson of the Authority for the period
            specified in the instrument.

 (2) The Chairperson or a Deputy Chairperson holds office until —

       (a) his or her term of office as Chairperson or Deputy
            Chairperson (as the case may be) expires;

       (b) he or she ceases to hold office as a member of the
            Authority; or

       (c) the Minister terminates the appointment as Chairperson or
            Deputy Chairperson, as the case may be,

whichever first happens.

 (3) A Deputy Chairperson has and may exercise all of the functions
and powers of the Chairperson in relation to a matter if —

       (a) the Chairperson is unavailable; or

       (b) the Chairperson is interested in the matter (within the
            meaning given by Part 4 of the Public Sector (Governance)
            Act 2018).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
14  NO. 14 OF 2022

Premature vacancies

 13.—(1) If a premature vacancy occurs in the office of any member
of the Authority, the Minister may, subject to sections 9, 10 and 11,
appoint an individual to fill the vacancy and hold that office for the
remainder of the term for which the vacating member was appointed.

 (2) In this section, “premature vacancy”, for an office, means a
vacancy that occurs in that office for any reason other than the expiry
of the term of office.

Acting Chairperson and members

 14.—(1) The Minister may appoint an individual to act temporarily
as the Chairperson during any period, or during all periods, when the
Chairperson —

       (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

 (2) The Minister may appoint an individual to act temporarily as a
member of the Authority (other than the Chairperson) during any
period, or during all periods, when the member —

       (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

 (3) An individual is ineligible for appointment under this section to
act as the Chairperson or a member of the Authority if the individual
is disqualified under section 11(2) for appointment as a member of
the Authority.

Removal of member

 15.—(1) The Minister may, at any time and without giving any
reason, remove a member of the Authority from office.

 (2) Every removal under subsection (1) must be made by written
notice given to the member with a copy to the Authority.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY

OF SINGAPORE                                               15

 (3) The notice must state the date the removal takes effect, which
must not be a date earlier than the date the notice is received by the
member.

Resignation from office

 16.—(1) A member of the Authority may resign his or her office by
written notice to the Minister (with a copy to the Authority) signed by
the member.

 (2) The resignation is effective when the notice in subsection (1) is
received by the Minister or at any later time specified in the notice.

Validity of acts, etc.

 17.—(1) Despite section 33 of the Interpretation Act 1965, the
exercise of any power or performance of any function of the
Authority by the Authority is not affected merely because at the
relevant time —

       (a) there was a vacancy in the membership of the Authority,
            including a vacancy arising from the failure to appoint a
            member;

       (b) there was some defect or irregularity existing in the
            appointment or continuance in office of the individual
            purporting to be a member of the Authority; or

       (c) there was an irregularity in the Authority’s
            decision‑making procedure that does not affect the
            merits of the decision made.

 (2) The acts of an individual as a member of the Authority are not
affected merely because —

       (a) there was some defect or irregularity existing in the
            appointment or continuance in office of the individual
            purporting to be a member of the Authority; or

       (b) in the case of an individual acting in the capacity of the
            Chairperson, member or Chief Executive, the occasion for
            the individual so acting, or for his or her appointment, had
            not arisen or had ended.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
16  NO. 14 OF 2022

           Division 2 — Terms and conditions for members

Term of appointment

 18.—(1) Subject to section 20, each member of the Authority holds
office for a period of 3 years or any shorter period specified in the
instrument of appointment.

 (2) A member of the Authority may be re‑appointed.

Remuneration, etc.

 19. The members of the Authority may be paid, out of the funds of
the Authority, such salaries, fees and allowances as the Minister
determines.

Vacation of office

 20.—(1) A member of the Authority ceases to hold office if he or
she —

       (a) dies;

       (b) is adjudicated a bankrupt or makes an arrangement with
            any of his or her creditors;

       (c) becomes otherwise disqualified from being a member
            under section 11(2);

       (d) is removed from office in accordance with section 15;

       (e) resigns in accordance with section 16;

        (f) fails without reasonable cause to disclose any interest
            required under Division 1 of Part 4 of the Public Sector
            (Governance) Act 2018 and a notice is given under that Act
            to the Minister about that default;

       (g) fails to attend 3 consecutive meetings of the Authority
            without the approval of the Authority; or

       (h) is not re‑appointed when his or her term of office expires.

 (2) A member of the Authority is not entitled to any compensation
or other payment or benefit relating to his or her ceasing, for any
reason, to hold office as a member.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY

OF SINGAPORE                                               17

                                    PART 4

                DECISION-MAKING BY AUTHORITY

                           Division 1 — Meetings

Procedure generally

 21. Except as otherwise provided under this Act or any other Act,
the members of the Authority must regulate their own procedure.

Notice of meetings

 22.—(1) The Authority must hold such meetings as are necessary
for the performance of its functions.

 (2) The Chairperson must appoint the times and places of the
meetings of the Authority, and cause notice of those meetings to be
given to each member, including those not present when the
appointment is made.

 (3) The meetings of the Authority must be held in accordance with
the provisions of this Act and Part 4 of the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018.

Quorum

 23.—(1) The quorum is the number that is one‑third the number of
members or 3 members, whichever is higher.

 (2) No business may be transacted at a meeting of the Authority if a
quorum is not present.

Presiding at meetings

 24.—(1) At a meeting of the Authority, the following person
presides:

       (a) if there is a Chairperson and he or she is present and is not
            interested (within the meaning given by Part 4 of the Public
            Sector (Governance) Act 2018) in the matter — the
            Chairperson;

       (b) if there is no Chairperson, or the Chairperson is not present
            or is interested (within the meaning given by Part 4 of the
            Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018) in the matter, and a

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
18  NO. 14 OF 2022

            Deputy Chairperson who is not so interested in the matter
            is present — a Deputy Chairperson;

       (c) in any other case, the member elected from among
            themselves to preside.

 (2) A person mentioned in subsection (1)(b) or (c) may exercise all
the powers and functions of the Chairperson for the purposes of the
meeting.

Voting at meetings

 25.—(1) Each member has one vote.

 (2) In addition to his or her general vote, the member presiding at a
meeting has, in the case of an equality of votes, a casting vote.

 (3) A resolution of the Authority is passed if it is agreed by all
members present without dissent, or if a majority of the members who
are entitled to vote on the matter cast votes in favour of it.

 (4) A member present at a meeting of the Authority is presumed to
have agreed to, and to have voted in favour of, a resolution of the
Authority unless he or she expressly dissents from or votes against
the resolution at the meeting.

Execution of documents

 26.—(1) The Authority must have a seal.

 (2) The seal of the Authority is to be kept and used as authorised by
the Authority.

 (3) A document is duly executed by the Authority if —

       (a) the seal of the Authority is affixed to the document in the
            presence of one of its members who must sign the
            document to attest that the seal was so affixed, and the
            document is signed —

               (i) by any 2 members generally or specially authorised
                   by the Authority for the purpose; or

              (ii) by one member and the Chief Executive; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY

OF SINGAPORE                                               19

       (b) the document is signed on behalf of the Authority by a
            person or persons authorised to do so by the Authority and
            in accordance with the terms of that authorisation.

 (4) A document purporting to be executed in accordance with this
section is presumed to be duly executed until the contrary is shown.

 (5) All courts, judges and persons acting judicially are to take
judicial notice of the imprint of the seal of the Authority appearing on
a document.

 (6) When a document is produced bearing a seal purporting to be
the seal of the Authority, it must be presumed that the seal is the seal
of the Authority until the contrary is shown.

                Division 2 — Committees and delegation

Appointment of committees

 27.—(1) The Authority may, by resolution, appoint any number of
committees that the Authority thinks fit for purposes which, in the
opinion of the Authority, would be better regulated and managed by
means of those committees.

 (2) A committee appointed under this section may consist of any
number of individuals that the Authority thinks fit, and may include
individuals who are not members of the Authority.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may appoint
committees —

       (a) to advise the Authority on any matters relating to the
            Authority’s functions and powers that are referred to the
            committee by the Authority; or

       (b) to perform or exercise any of the Authority’s functions and
            powers that are delegated to the committee, if the
            committee includes at least one member of the Authority.

 (4) An individual may not be appointed as a member of a committee
unless, before appointment, he or she discloses to the Authority the
details of any interest (within the meaning given by Part 4 of the
Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018) the individual may have if he
or she were a member of that committee.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
20  NO. 14 OF 2022

Proceedings of committees

 28.—(1) Section 17 applies to a committee, and to committee
members or individuals purporting to be committee members, with
the necessary modifications.

 (2) Subject to this Act, the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
and any restrictions by a resolution under section 29(1), a committee
may regulate its own proceedings and business as it thinks fit.

Ability to delegate, etc.

 29.—(1) The Authority may delegate the performance or exercise
of any of its functions or powers, either generally or specially, to any
of the following persons by resolution and written notice to the person
or persons:

       (a) a member of the Authority;

       (b) the Chief Executive, any employee of the Authority or any
            other person performing duties in the Authority;

       (c) a committee;

       (d) a wholly‑owned subsidiary company of the Authority;

       (e) a person engaged as a contractor by the Authority.

 (2) A delegation by the Authority under subsection (1) of the
performance or exercise of any of its functions or powers —

       (a) to a person in subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c) may authorise the
            delegate to subdelegate the performance or exercise of the
            function or power to another member, an appropriately
            qualified employee of the Authority or person performing
            duties in the Authority (called in this Act a subdelegate); or

       (b) to a person in subsection (1)(d) or (e) may authorise the
            delegate to subdelegate the performance or exercise of the
            function or power to an appropriately qualified employee
            of that delegate (also called in this Act a subdelegate),

but subject to the same restrictions, and with the same effect, as if the
subdelegate were the delegate.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY

OF SINGAPORE                                               21

 (3) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to any power under this Act
or any other Act administered by the Authority that is declared by that
Act to be non‑delegable.

 (4) A delegation or subdelegation in accordance with this Act is not
affected by any change in the membership of the Authority or of any
committee or by any change in the Chief Executive or employee.

 (5) In this section —

       (a) a reference to a wholly‑owned subsidiary company of the
            Authority includes a company limited by guarantee the
            sole member of which is the Authority; and

       (b) a reference to a person performing duties in the Authority
            includes a person performing duties in the Authority under
            a contract, or under an arrangement making available
            temporarily to the Authority the services of public officers
            (or secondment).

Power of delegate, etc.

 30.—(1) A delegate (or subdelegate) who purports to perform a
function or exercise a power under delegation (or subdelegation) —

       (a) is taken to be in accordance with the terms of a delegation
            (or subdelegation) under section 29, unless the contrary is
            shown; and

       (b) must produce evidence of his or her authority to do so, if
            reasonably requested to do so.

 (2) A subdelegate to whom a function or power of the Authority is
subdelegated under section 29(2) is not authorised to further delegate
that function or power to anyone else.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
22  NO. 14 OF 2022

                                    PART 5

                         PERSONNEL MATTERS

Appointment of Chief Executive

 31.—(1) There must be a Chief Executive of the Authority, whose
appointment, removal, discipline and promotion must be in
accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

 (2) The Authority may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint an individual to act temporarily as the Chief
Executive during any period, or during all periods, when the Chief
Executive —

       (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

Officers, etc.

 32. The Authority may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint and employ, on such terms and conditions as the
Authority may determine, such other officers, employees, consultants
and agents as may be necessary for the effective performance of its
functions.

Public servants

 33.—(1) Every delegate and subdelegate of the Authority is taken
to be a public servant for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

 (2) Every delegate and subdelegate of the Authority is, in relation to
his or her administration, assessment, collection and enforcement of
payment of —

       (a) any financial penalty imposed under any written law
            administered by the Authority; or

       (b) any composition sum collected under this Act or any other
            written law administered by the Authority,

taken to be a public officer for the purposes of the Financial
Procedure Act 1966; and section 20 of that Act applies to each of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY

OF SINGAPORE                                               23

these persons even though they are not or were not in the employment
of the Government.

 (3) This section does not affect sections 20 and 21 of the Public
Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

Preservation of secrecy

 34.—(1) A member, an employee, a delegate or subdelegate of the
Authority, the Chief Executive or a committee member, who has
information in his or her capacity as such that would not otherwise be
available to him or her, must not disclose that information to any
person except —

       (a) in the performance of the Authority’s functions;

       (b) with the prior authorisation from the Authority to do so;

       (c) for the purposes of any proceedings for an offence under
            this Act, or any report of those proceedings;

       (d) as required by an order of court;

       (e) in complying with the requirements in this Act for
            members to disclose interests; or

        (f) as required or allowed by the Authority, the Chief
            Executive, the member, employee, delegate or
            subdelegate of the Authority or the committee member,
            by or under this Act or any other Act.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (3) To avoid doubt, this section does not limit the operation of
section 192 of the Casino Control Act 2006.

Protection from personal liability

 35. No liability shall lie against any member, any committee
member, the Chief Executive or any employee, delegate or
subdelegate of the Authority, or any other person acting under the
direction of the Authority, for anything which is done or purported to

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
24  NO. 14 OF 2022

be done, or omitted to be done, in good faith and with reasonable care
in —

       (a) the performance or purported performance of any function
            of the Authority; or

       (b) the exercise or purported exercise of any power for, or in
            connection with, the performance of its functions.

                                    PART 6

                        FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Financial year

 36. The financial year of the Authority begins on 1 April of each
year and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

Revenue and property of Authority

 37. The funds and property of the Authority include —

       (a) all moneys paid to the Authority by way of grants,
            subsidies, donations, gifts and contributions for the
            purposes of the Authority;

       (b) all moneys paid to, and all other moneys and property
            lawfully received by, the Authority for the purposes of the
            Authority;

       (c) all fees and charges payable to the Authority under this Act
            or any other Act administered by the Authority;

       (d) all moneys, dividends, royalties, interest or income
            received from any transaction made pursuant to the
            powers conferred on the Authority under this Act or any
            other Act administered by the Authority;

       (e) all moneys borrowed by the Authority under this Act; and

        (f) all accumulations of income derived from any property or
            money mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (e).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY

OF SINGAPORE                                               25

Bank accounts

 38.—(1) The Authority must open and maintain one or more
accounts with such bank or banks as the Authority thinks fit.

 (2) Every such account must only be operated by a person who is
authorised to do so by the Authority.

Financial accounts and records

 39. The Authority must —

       (a) keep proper accounts and records of its transactions and
            affairs; and

       (b) do all things necessary to ensure that —

               (i) all payments out of its moneys are correctly made
                   and properly authorised; and

              (ii) adequate control is maintained over the property and
                   assets of, or in the custody of, the Authority and over
                   the expenditure incurred by the Authority.

Power of investment

 40. The Authority may invest its moneys in accordance with the
standard investment power of statutory bodies as defined in
section 33A of the Interpretation Act 1965.

Issue of shares, etc.

 41. As a consequence of —

       (a) the vesting of any property, rights or liabilities in the
            Authority under this Act; or

       (b) any capital injection or other investment by the
            Government in the Authority in accordance with any
            other written law,

the Authority must issue such shares or other securities to the
Minister for Finance as that Minister may direct.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
26  NO. 14 OF 2022

Borrowing power

 42.—(1) The Authority cannot raise loans for the performance of its
functions under this Act or any other Act administered by the
Authority except in accordance with this section.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the Authority may raise loans by —

       (a) mortgage, overdraft or other means, with or without
            security;

       (b) charge, whether legal or equitable, on any property vested
            in the Authority or on any other revenue receivable by the
            Authority under this Act or any other written law; or

       (c) the creation and issue of debentures, bonds or any other
            instrument as the Minister may approve.

 (3) The Authority may raise loans —

       (a) from the Government; or

       (b) with the approval of the Minister, from another source,
            whether within or outside Singapore.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, the power to raise loans
includes the power to make any financial agreement whereby credit
facilities are granted to the Authority for the purchase of goods,
materials or things.

                                    PART 7

                                  GENERAL

Composition of offences

 43.—(1) The Chief Executive, or an employee of the Authority
authorised in writing by the Authority, may compound any offence
under this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by
collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having committed
the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $2,000.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY

OF SINGAPORE                                               27

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

Offences by corporations

 44.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

              (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
                   of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                   the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the corporation; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                   type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                   take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                   commission of that offence,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
28  NO. 14 OF 2022

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) any written law or practice regarding the admissibility of
            evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership;

      “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
         partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the corporation, and includes —

              (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

              (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
                   members, any of those members as if the member
                   were a director of the corporation;

      “reasonable steps”, in relation to the commission of an offence,
         includes, but is not limited to, such action (if any) of the
         following kinds as is reasonable in all the circumstances:

              (a) action towards —

                     (i) assessing the corporation’s compliance with
                          the provision creating the offence; and

                     (ii) ensuring that the corporation arranged regular
                          professional assessments of its compliance
                          with the provision;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY

OF SINGAPORE                                               29

              (b) action towards ensuring that the corporation’s
                   employees, agents and contractors are provided
                   with information, training, instruction and
                   supervision appropriate to them to enable them to
                   comply with the provision creating the offence so far
                   as the provision is relevant to them;

              (c) action towards ensuring that —

                     (i) the equipment and other resources; and

                     (ii) the structures, work systems and other
                          processes,

              (c) relevant to compliance with the provision creating
                   the offence are appropriate in all the circumstances;

              (d) action towards creating and maintaining a corporate
                   culture that does not direct, encourage, tolerate or
                   lead to non‑compliance with the provision creating
                   the offence;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with such modifications as the Minister
considers appropriate, to any corporation formed or recognised under
the law of a territory outside Singapore.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 45.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
30  NO. 14 OF 2022

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                   position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                   case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                   offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the unincorporated
                   association or partnership; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the unincorporated association or
                   partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                   be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                   reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                   that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY

OF SINGAPORE                                               31

it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) any written law or practice regarding the admissibility of
            evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
         a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
         member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
         and includes —

              (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
                   president, secretary or member of a committee of the
                   unincorporated association; and

              (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

      “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

      “reasonable steps” has the meaning given by section 44;

      “state of mind” has the meaning given by section 44.

Service of documents

 46.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents or,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
32  NO. 14 OF 2022

            if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
            address or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual; or

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

       (a) by giving it to any partner, secretary or other similar officer
            of the partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the partnership’s business address;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
            partnership’s business address; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
            address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
            body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
            limited liability partnership’s manager;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by post to, the registered
            office or principal office in Singapore of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY

OF SINGAPORE                                               33

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the registered
            office or principal office in Singapore of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association.

 (5) In addition, a document (other than a summons) permitted or
required by this Act to be served on an individual, a partnership, a
body corporate or an unincorporated association may be served —

       (a) by giving an electronic notice to the individual,
            partnership, body corporate or unincorporated
            association (called in this section an addressee) by the
            addressee’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
            document is available and how the addressee may use the
            addressee’s chosen means of access to access the
            document’s contents; or

       (b) by any other method authorised by regulations made under
            section 47 for the service of documents of that kind
            provided the addressee consents (expressly or impliedly) to
            service of a document of that kind in that way.

 (6) Service of a document takes effect —

       (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
            successful transmission is received, on the day of
            transmission;

       (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
            becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
            it is sent; or

       (c) if the document is sent by post, 2 days after the day the
            document was posted (even if it is returned undelivered).

 (7) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email or by an electronic notice at the person’s chosen means of
notification, may be effected only with the person’s prior consent
(express or implied) to service in that way.

 (8) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
34  NO. 14 OF 2022

 (9) In this section —

      “business address” means —

              (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
                   last known place of business in Singapore; or

              (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
                   liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
                   last known place of business in Singapore;

      “chosen means of access”, for an addressee on whom is or is to
         be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
         means an electronic means the addressee agrees with the
         person giving or serving the document as the means by which
         the addressee may access that document’s contents;

      “chosen means of notification”, for an addressee on whom is or
         is to be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
         means an electronic means that the addressee nominates to
         the person giving or serving the document as the means by
         which the addressee may be notified that such a document
         has been served on the addressee;

      “document” includes a notice or an order permitted or required
         by this Act to be served;

      “last email address” means the last email address given by the
         addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
         document as the email address for the service of documents
         under this Act;

      “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
         place of residence in Singapore.

Regulations

 47. The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations prescribing matters required or permitted by this Act to be
prescribed, or necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying
out or giving effect to this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY

OF SINGAPORE                                               35

                                    PART 8

    CONSEQUENTIAL AND RELATED AMENDMENTS TO
                                OTHER ACTS

Amendment of Casino Control Act 2006

 48.—(1) Section 2 of the Casino Control Act 2006 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the definitions of “authorised person” and
            “Authority” in subsection (1) and substituting the
            following definitions:

                  “ “authorised person”, for any provision of this Act,
                        means an officer or employee of the Authority or
                        other individual who is appointed as an
                        authorised person under section 6 for the
                        purposes of that provision;

                     “Authority” means the Gambling Regulatory
                        Authority of Singapore, which is the Casino
                        Regulatory Authority of Singapore continued
                        and renamed as the Gambling Regulatory
                        Authority of Singapore under section 3 of the
                        Gambling Regulatory Authority of Singapore
                        Act 2022;”;

       (b) by deleting the definition of “Chairperson” in
            subsection (1);

       (c) by deleting the words “section 13(3)” in the definition of
            “inspector” in subsection (1) and substituting the words
            “section 7”;

       (d) by deleting the definition of “member” in subsection (1);

       (e) by deleting the words “for Home Affairs” in the definition
            of “Minister” in subsection (1) and substituting the words
            “charged with the responsibility for gambling
            suppression”; and

        (f) by inserting, immediately after subsection (3), the
            following subsection:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
36  NO. 14 OF 2022

                  “(4) A reference in this Act to an individual
                 performing duties in the Authority is a reference to —

                        (a) an employee of the Authority; or

                        (b) a public officer performing duties in the
                             Authority under a secondment arrangement
                             making available temporarily to the
                             Authority the services of public officers.”.

(2) Part 2 of the Casino Control Act 2006 is amended —

      (a) by deleting the Part heading and Division 1 heading and
           substituting the following Part heading:

                                  “PART 2

                          ADMINISTRATION”;

      (b) by repealing sections 5 to 13 (including the headings of
           Divisions 2 and 3) and substituting the following sections:

                 “Authority responsible to administer Act

                  5. It is the function of the Authority to exercise
                 licensing and regulatory functions in accordance with
                 this Act with respect to the operation of casinos in
                 Singapore, and to administer this Act where not
                 expressly otherwise provided.

                 Authorised persons

                  6.—(1) The Authority may, in relation to any
                 provision of this Act, appoint —

                        (a) any individual performing duties in the
                             Authority; or

                        (b) a public officer,

                 to be an authorised person for the purposes of that
                 provision, either generally or in a particular case.

                  (2) The Authority may delegate the exercise of all
                 or any of the powers conferred or duties imposed
                 upon it by any provision of this Act to any authorised

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY

OF SINGAPORE                                               37

                  person; and any reference in that provision of this Act
                  to the Authority includes a reference to such an
                  authorised person.

                    (3) However, nothing in this section authorises
                  delegating the following non‑delegable powers:

                          (a) the power of delegation conferred by this
                               section;

                          (b) any power of the Authority to make
                               subsidiary legislation under this Act.

                    (4) Any delegation under subsection (2) may be
                  general or in a particular case, and may be subject to
                  such conditions or limitations as set out in this Act or
                  as the Authority may specify.

                  Inspectors

                    7.—(1) The Authority may in writing appoint as an
                  inspector any individual who is performing duties in
                  the Authority and has suitable qualifications to
                  properly exercise the powers of an inspector.

                    (2) The Authority must issue to each inspector an
                  identification card, which must be carried at all times
                  by the inspector when exercising powers conferred on
                  an inspector by or under this Act.

                    (3) Every inspector who is not an employee of the
                  Authority and acting under this section is deemed to
                  be a public servant for the purposes of the Penal
                  Code 1871.”; and

       (c) by repealing Divisions 4, 5 and 6.

 (3) Section 190(1) of the Casino Control Act 2006 is amended by
deleting the words “12(1) or” in paragraph (e).

 (4) Section 192 of the Casino Control Act 2006 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “be incurred by —” and substituting
            the words “lie against any of the following:”;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
38  NO. 14 OF 2022

       (b) by deleting the word “or” at the end of paragraph (f);

       (c) by deleting the words “12(1) or” in paragraph (g);

       (d) by inserting, immediately after the words “in good faith”,
            the words “and with reasonable care”;

       (e) by deleting the words “or any other written law;” in
            paragraph (h) and substituting the word “; or”;

        (f) by deleting the words “or any other written law; or” in
            paragraph (i) and substituting a full‑stop; and

       (g) by deleting paragraph (j).

 (5) Section 193 of the Casino Control Act 2006 is amended by
deleting the words “12(1) or”.

 (6) Section 196 of the Casino Control Act 2006 is amended by
deleting subsection (4).

 (7) Section 197 of the Casino Control Act 2006 is repealed and the
following section substituted therefor:

      “Recovering and collecting financial penalties, etc.

       197.—(1) All the following must be collected by the Authority
      and paid into the Consolidated Fund:

             (a) any financial penalties imposed under section 54 or
                  93, or any regulations made under section 110B(6)
                  regarding disciplinary action against licensed
                  international market agents and licensed
                  international market agent representatives;

             (b) any moneys under a performance bond, deposit or
                  other form of security required under section 185C
                  and forfeited for the purpose of meeting any financial
                  penalty imposed;

             (c) any winnings forfeited under section 128(2);

             (d) any composition sum collected under sections 152
                  and 196, respectively.

       (2) Any sum mentioned in subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c) (or any
      part thereof) that has become due and payable by a person but

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY

OF SINGAPORE                                               39

      has not been paid may be recovered as if a debt due to the
      Authority from that person; and the person’s liability to pay is
      not affected by the person’s licence ceasing, for any reason, to be
      in force.”.

 (8) The Casino Control Act 2006 is amended —

       (a) by deleting paragraphs (a) and (b) of section 200(2); and

       (b) by repealing the First Schedule.

Amendment of Gambling Duties Act 2022

 49.—(1) The Gambling Duties Act 2022 is amended by inserting,
immediately after section 42, the following section:

      “Confidentiality

       43.—(1) Except as provided in subsection (2), section 6 of the
      Income Tax Act 1947 applies to every individual having any
      official duty or being employed in the administration of this Act
      in relation to all returns, accounts, statements, records,
      information, assessment and other documents relating to the
      gaming revenue or items of the gaming revenue of any taxable
      person which are required to be lodged or provided to the
      Commissioner or an enforcement official in accordance with
      this Act with the necessary modifications as that section applies
      to any documents, information, returns, assessment lists or
      copies of such lists relating to the income or items of income of
      any person.

       (2) Despite section 6(12) of the Income Tax Act 1947, the
      Commissioner or an enforcement official may —

             (a) provide to any officer of the Gambling Regulatory
                  Authority of Singapore (or GRAS); and

             (b) upon the request of the GRAS, permit any officer of
                  the GRAS to have access (including taking copies of)
                  to,

      any information obtained by the Commissioner or enforcement
      official in the performance of the Commissioner’s or
      enforcement official’s duties under this Act —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
40  NO. 14 OF 2022

             (c) where the information is required by the officer of the
                  GRAS in the performance of the officer’s duties in
                  administering or facilitating the administration of any
                  written law that is a function of the GRAS; and

             (d) to the extent that the Commissioner is satisfied that
                  the information or access is necessary for the
                  performance of those duties of that officer.

       (3) In this section —

            “Gambling Regulatory Authority of Singapore” or
               “GRAS” means the Gambling Regulatory Authority
               of Singapore, which is the Casino Regulatory Authority
               of Singapore continued and renamed under section 3 of
               the Gambling Regulatory Authority of Singapore
               Act 2022;

            “officer of the Gambling Regulatory Authority of
               Singapore” means —

                    (a) an employee of the GRAS; or

                    (b) a public officer performing duties in the GRAS
                         under a secondment arrangement making
                         available temporarily to the GRAS the
                         services of public officers.”.

 (2) Section 43 of the Gambling Duties Act 2022 is repealed.

Amendment of Singapore Totalisator Board Act 1987

 50.—(1) The long title to the Singapore Totalisator Board Act 1987
is amended by deleting the words “and to regulate the conduct of
betting by agencies of the Board,”.

 (2) Section 2 of the Singapore Totalisator Board Act 1987 is
amended —

       (a) by deleting the definitions of “advertisement”, “lottery”
            and “writing”;

       (b) by inserting, immediately after the definition of “chief
            executive”, the following definition:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY

OF SINGAPORE                                               41

                  “ “Gambling Regulatory Authority of Singapore”
                        means the Casino Regulatory Authority of
                        Singapore continued and renamed as the
                        Gambling Regulatory Authority of Singapore
                        under the Gambling Regulatory Authority of
                        Singapore Act 2022;”;

       (c) by deleting the words “appointed by” in the definition of
            “totalisator agency” and substituting the words “under the
            supervision of”; and

       (d) by deleting the semi‑colon at the end of the definition of
            “turf club” and substituting a full‑stop.

 (3) Section 4 of the Singapore Totalisator Board Act 1987 is
amended —

       (a) by deleting paragraph (a) of subsection (1) and substituting
            the following paragraph:

                        “(a) to supervise the affairs of a turf club
                               operating in Singapore;”;

       (b) by deleting paragraph (c) of subsection (1);

       (c) by deleting paragraph (f) of subsection (1) and substituting
            the following paragraph:

                         “(f) to work collaboratively with the Gambling
                               Regulatory Authority of Singapore to
                               foster responsible gambling and reduce
                               the prevalence of unauthorised
                               gambling.”; and

       (d) by inserting, immediately after subsection (3), the
            following subsection:

                    “(4) However, nothing in this Act confers on the
                  Board a function or power to conduct on its own
                  behalf any race meeting or a totalisator for gaming in
                  relation to any racing or otherwise.”.

 (4) The Singapore Totalisator Board Act 1987 is amended by
inserting, immediately after section 4, the following section:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
42  NO. 14 OF 2022

      “Contributing to charitable, etc., purposes

       4A. The Board also has the function to ensure that public
      benefits may be derived from any racing or gaming conducted
      by a turf club or totalisator agency which is under the
      supervision of the Board, through regular contributions out of
      their proceeds or profits so as to fund distributions under
      section 5 by the Board.”.

 (5) Section 5 of the Singapore Totalisator Board Act 1987 is
amended —

       (a) by deleting paragraph (a) of subsection (1) and substituting
            the following paragraph:

                        “(a) to distribute sums, out of moneys forming
                               part of the funds of the Board and not
                               required by it in the exercise of its
                               functions under section 4, for all or any
                               of the following purposes:

                                 (i) public, social or charitable purposes
                                      relating to Singapore;

                                 (ii) the promotion of culture, art and
                                      sport generally in Singapore;”;

       (b) by deleting paragraph (c) of subsection (1) and substituting
            the following paragraph:

                        “(c) to suspend or revoke any totalisator or
                               gaming activity established by any
                               totalisator agency under the supervision
                               of the Board.”; and

       (c) by deleting subsection (2).

 (6) Section 9(2) of the Singapore Totalisator Board Act 1987 is
amended by deleting paragraph (a).

 (7) Section 15 of the Singapore Totalisator Board Act 1987 is
amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “the Board and any” in
            subsection (1) and substituting the word “every”; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
   GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY

   OF SINGAPORE                                               43

       (b) by deleting subsection (3).

 (8) Sections 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22 of the Singapore Totalisator
Board Act 1987 are repealed.

 (9) Section 24 of the Singapore Totalisator Board Act 1987 is
repealed and the following section substituted therefor:

      “Power to make regulations

       24. The Minister may make such regulations as the Minister
      considers necessary or expedient to give effect to the provisions
      and for the due administration of this Act.”.

Consequential amendments to other Acts
 51.—(1) The Schedule to the Accounting Standards Act 2007 is

amended —
       (a) by deleting item 5; and
       (b) by inserting, immediately after item 14, the following item:

.  “14A. Gambling Regulatory . Gambling Regulatory

   Authority of  Authority of Singapore

   Singapore     Act 2022”.

 (2) The Schedule to the Attorney‑General (Additional Functions)
Act 2014 is amended —

       (a) by deleting item 3; and

       (b) by inserting, immediately after item 6, the following item:
                  “6A. Gambling Regulatory Authority of Singapore”.

 (3) Paragraph 6 of the First Schedule to the Central Provident Fund
Act 1953 is amended by deleting item (6A) and substituting the
following item:

      “(6A) Gambling Regulatory Authority of Singapore.”.
 (4) The Schedule to the Official Secrets Act 1935 is amended —

       (a) by deleting item 2; and

       (b) by inserting, immediately after item 11, the following item:
                  “11A. Gambling Regulatory Authority of Singapore”.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
44  NO. 14 OF 2022

 (5) Item 7 of the Schedule to the Organised Crime Act 2015 is
amended by deleting the words “Casino Regulatory Authority of
Singapore” in the second column and substituting the words
“Gambling Regulatory Authority of Singapore”.

 (6) Part 1 of the First Schedule to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018 is amended —

       (a) by deleting item 4; and

       (b) by inserting, immediately after item 12, the following item:

.   “12A. Gambling Regulatory . Gambling Regulatory

    Authority of    Authority of Singapore

    Singapore       Act 2022”.

 (7) The Schedule to the Statutory Bodies and Government
Companies (Protection of Secrecy) Act 1983 is amended —

       (a) by deleting item 3; and

       (b) by inserting, immediately after item 10, the following item:

.   “10A. Gambling Regulatory . Gambling Regulatory

    Authority of    Authority of Singapore

    Singapore       Act 2022”.

 (8) The Schedule to the Statutory Corporations (Contributions to
Consolidated Fund) Act 1989 is amended —

       (a) by deleting item 5; and

       (b) by inserting, immediately after item 14, the following item:

.   “14A. Gambling Regulatory . Gambling Regulatory

    Authority of    Authority of Singapore

    Singapore       Act 2022”.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
GAMBLING REGULATORY AUTHORITY

OF SINGAPORE                                               45

                                    PART 9

           SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

Saving arrangements for renaming of Casino Regulatory
Authority of Singapore

 52.—(1) From the appointed day, any reference in any written law
or contract or other document to the Casino Regulatory Authority is a
reference to the Authority.

 (2) The change in corporate name of the Casino Regulatory
Authority under section 3 does not operate —

       (a) to create a new legal entity;

       (b) to prejudice or affect the identity of the body corporate and
            public authority constituted by the Casino Regulatory
            Authority or its continuity as a body corporate and public
            authority;

       (c) to affect the property of, or the exercise of any right or the
            enforcement of any obligation by or against, the Casino
            Regulatory Authority; or

       (d) to render defective any legal proceedings by or against the
            Casino Regulatory Authority.

 (3) From the appointed day, any legal proceedings that might have
been continued or commenced by or against the Authority in its
former corporate name of the Casino Regulatory Authority may be
continued or commenced by or against the Authority in its new
corporate name of the Gambling Regulatory Authority of Singapore.

 (4) From the appointed day, any reference in any written law or
document to the Casino Regulatory Authority and to the Casino
Control Act 2006 in connection with the Casino Regulatory
Authority must be read as a reference to the Gambling Regulatory
Authority of Singapore and the Gambling Regulatory Authority of
Singapore Act 2022, respectively.

Saving and transitional provision for section 48

 53. To avoid doubt, despite section 48, every individual who,
immediately before the appointed day, is —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
46  NO. 14 OF 2022

       (a) the Chairperson or a member of the Casino Regulatory
            Authority;

       (b) a member of a committee appointed under section 12 of the
            Casino Control Act 2006;

       (c) the Chief Executive of the Casino Regulatory Authority
            appointed under section 13 of the Casino Control
            Act 2006; or

       (d) an officer, employee, consultant or agent appointed under
            section 13 of the Casino Control Act 2006,

continues to hold such office as if he or she were appointed under the
corresponding provision in this Act.

Other saving and transitional provisions

 54.—(1) Despite section 50(8), any offence allegedly committed
before the date of the commencement of that provision and which is,
immediately before that date, prescribed as a compoundable offence
for the purposes of section 22 of the Singapore Totalisator Board
Act 1987, may continue to be compounded as if section 22 of that Act
had not been repealed by section 50(8).

 (2) For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of
section 50, the Minister charged with the responsibility for finance
may, by regulations, prescribe such additional provisions of a saving
or transitional nature consequent on the enactment of that provision
as that Minister may consider necessary or expedient.

 (3) For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of any
other provision of this Act, the Minister may, by regulations,
prescribe such additional provisions of a saving or transitional
nature consequent on the enactment of that provision as the Minister
may consider necessary or expedient.

 (4) To avoid doubt, nothing in or done under this Part prejudices
section 16 of the Interpretation Act 1965.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/10/2024
