THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                MISCELLANEOUS OFFENCES

             (PUBLIC ORDER AND NUISANCE)
                               ACT 1906

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                                                                   2020 Ed.

           Miscellaneous Offences
         (Public Order and Nuisance)

                    Act 1906

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                                  PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Verandah public roads
     2.  Offences how punishable
     3.
     4.

                                        PART 2

       OFFENCES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER AND NUISANCE

 5. [Repealed]
 6. Burning material or discharging firearm in public road
 7. Duty of police officers as to dangerous animals
 8. Dog running at persons, etc.
 9. Ferocious dog at large
10. Liability of dog owner
11. Nuisances
12. Offences relating to animals
13. Other offences relating to public road
14. Excessive noise
14A. Making of harassing or obscene telephone calls to emergency

         telephone numbers
14B. Liability of subscriber
14C. Providing of information
14D. Communicating false message
14E. Publication of identity information and accompanying false

         statement of fact in relation to public servant
15. Relief for occupier of premises from nuisance

                                  1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.  Act 1906                                                            2

Section
   16. Obstruction in canals, etc.
   17. Penalty for depositing corpse or dying person

          PART 3

          OTHER OFFENCES

18.       [Repealed]
19.       Soliciting in public place
20.       Riotous, disorderly or indecent behaviour in, or in immediate
          vicinity of, certain places
21.       Wilful trespass on property
22.       Loitering in place, vessel, etc., without satisfactory explanation
22A.      Carrying truncheons, etc., in public places
23.       Penalty for taking intoxicant, etc., into public hospital
24.       Improper management of house of public resort

          PART 4

          VAGRANCY

25.       Interpretation of this Part
26.       Disorderly or indecent behaviour by prostitutes
27.       Rogues and vagabonds
27A.      Appearing nude in public or private place
28.       Any person may arrest offender
29.       Search of conveyance or goods of person arrested
30.       Search of premises for idle and disorderly person and rogue and
          vagabond
31.       Magistrate may take recognisances for good behaviour in certain
          cases

                                        PART 5

                                      TOUTING

32. Touting for business
33. Touting in public offices
34. Arrestable offence

                                        PART 6
               FRAUDULENT POSSESSION OF PROPERTY
35. Fraudulent possession of property

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
         Miscellaneous Offences

         (Public Order and Nuisance)

3        Act 1906                                                    2020 Ed.

Section  Secondhand dealers and money changers to report property
   36.   stolen or fraudulently obtained
         Melting or defacing metals, etc., within 5 days of receipt
   37.   [Repealed]
   38.   Employees not affected
   39.

                                          PART 6A

             OFFENCES RELATING TO MISUSE OF SIM CARDS

   39A. Interpretation of this Part
   39B. Unlawful provision of SIM card registered using person’s

            personal information
   39C. Unlawful provision, etc., of person’s personal information for

            purpose of registering SIM card
   39D. Transacting of SIM card registered using another person’s

            personal information for criminal activity
   39E. Transacting of SIM card registered using another person’s

            personal information for consideration
   39F. Possession of SIM card registered using another person’s

            personal information for criminal activity
   39G. Facilitation of fraudulent registration of SIM card that facilitates

            criminal activity
   39H. Offences under this Part committed outside Singapore
   39I. Arrestable offence

                                           PART 7

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   40. Power of arrest
   40A. Offences by corporations
   40B. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   41. Regulations
   42. Amendment of Schedule

            The Schedule — Scam offences

An Act relating to offences against public order, nuisance and
  property.

                                                                  [6 July 1906]

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
             Miscellaneous Offences

             (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.     Act 1906                                               4

             PART 1

             PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Miscellaneous Offences (Public Order and
Nuisance) Act 1906.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “cattle” includes bulls, cows, bullocks and buffaloes;

      “horse” includes mules and asses;

      “in or near any public road” includes all places in the public
         road, and all places within 9 metres of it not being effectually
         separated from and hidden from the road by a wall or
         otherwise;

      “public place” means any place or premises to which at the
         material time the public or any section of the public has
         access, on payment or otherwise, as of right or by virtue of
         express or implied permission;

      “public road” includes every road, street, passage, footway or
         square over which the public has a right of way.

Verandah public roads

 3. The open verandahs of houses abutting on the public roads are
public roads for foot passengers subject to all rights of property of the
owners of those houses.

Offences how punishable

 4. All offences under this Act are to be tried by a Magistrate’s Court
or a District Court; and despite the provisions of any other written
law, a Magistrate’s Court or a District Court has the power to impose
the maximum penalty prescribed for any such offence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
   Miscellaneous Offences

   (Public Order and Nuisance)

5  Act 1906                                                  2020 Ed.

   PART 2

   OFFENCES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER AND NUISANCE

   5. [Repealed by Act 15 of 2009]

Burning material or discharging firearm in public road

 6.—(1) Any person who sets fire to or burns any material to the
annoyance, inconvenience or danger of the public, or negligently or
wilfully discharges any firearm or airgun, or throws or discharges any
stone or other missile, or sends up any fire balloon or rocket in or near
any public road shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

 (2) It is not an offence under subsection (1) for any person to
discharge a firearm or airgun in or near a public road in the exercise of
the person’s duty under any written law relating to the destruction of
dogs.

Duty of police officers as to dangerous animals

 7.—(1) Every police officer must secure any animal reasonably
suspected to be mad or dangerous, and any wild animal found at large
in or near any public road under circumstances of danger to the
public.

 (2) If there is reasonable ground to believe that any such mad,
dangerous or wild animal cannot be secured without risk of personal
injury to the police officer attempting to secure the animal, the police
officer may shoot or otherwise destroy the animal.

Dog running at persons, etc.

 8. If it is proved to the satisfaction of a Magistrate’s Court that any
dog is in the habit of running at persons or at vehicles or bicycles
passing along a public road, the owner of the dog shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$1,000.

Ferocious dog at large

 9. Any person who negligently suffers to be at large any ferocious
dog without a muzzle shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.  Act 1906                                                  6

on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000, and if the dog has bitten,
or attempted to bite any person, the dog may be killed by order of a
Magistrate’s Court.

Liability of dog owner

 10.—(1) Any owner of a dog which causes injury to any person
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000.

 (2) In addition to any fine imposed under subsection (1),
compensation not exceeding $2,000 is payable to the person
injured in respect of any such injury.

 (3) Such compensation is to be assessed by the Magistrate’s Court
and is recoverable from the owner of the dog in the manner provided
by law for the recovery of fines before Magistrates’ Courts.

 (4) In any prosecution relating to any dog under subsection (1), it is
not necessary to show a previous vicious propensity in the dog or the
owner’s knowledge of such previous propensity or that the injury was
attributable to neglect on the part of the owner.

 (5) The occupier of any house or premises where any dog was kept
or permitted to live or remain at the time of causing any such injury
mentioned in subsection (1) is deemed to be the owner of the dog and
shall be liable as such unless the occupier can prove that —

       (a) he or she was not the owner of the dog at the time the injury
            complained of was committed; and

       (b) the dog was kept or permitted to live or remain in the house
            or premises without his or her sanction or knowledge.

 (6) Where there are 2 or more occupiers in any house or premises
let in separate apartments or lodgings or otherwise, the occupier of
that particular part of the premises in which the dog was kept or
permitted to live or remain at the time of the injury is deemed to be the
owner of the dog.

 (7) No compensation is payable to any person under this section in
respect of injury sustained in any house or premises except upon
proof that the person entered the house or premises in the ordinary

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
   Miscellaneous Offences

   (Public Order and Nuisance)

7  Act 1906                                                  2020 Ed.

course of the person’s duties or with the express or implied
permission of the occupier.

 (8) No criminal liability arises under this section in respect of any
injury sustained by any person in any house or premises unless the
person entered the house or premises in the ordinary course of the
person’s duties or with the express or implied permission of the
occupier.

 (9) The owner shall not be liable under this section for any injury
sustained by any person where the injury was attributable to any
wrongful act of that person.

Nuisances

 11.—(1) Any person who commits any of the following offences
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000:

       (a) without authority in the case of public property, or without
            the consent of the owner or occupier in the case of private
            property, affixes or causes to be affixed any advertisement,
            bill or notice, or any paper against or upon any building,
            wall or fence, or writes upon, defaces or marks any such
            building, wall or fence with chalk or paint, or in any other
            way;

       (b) bathes or washes himself or herself, or any other person,
            animal or thing on any public road, or in, upon or by the
            side of any public tank, reservoir, watercourse or stream;

       (c) obstructs or causes trouble or inconvenience to a person
            bathing at any place set apart as a bathing place by wilful
            intrusion, or by washing any animal at or near that place, or
            in any other way;

       (d) being the owner or person in charge of any animal does not,
            if the animal dies, dispose of its carcase in such a way as
            not to be a common nuisance;

       (e) places any dead animal on or near any public road;

        (f) spits in any coffee shop, market, eating house, school
            house, theatre or public building, or in any omnibus,
            railway carriage or other public conveyance, or on any

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.  Act 1906                                                  8

          wharf or jetty, or in any public road, or on any five‑foot
          way or sidewalk of any public road, or in any other place to
          which the public has or may have access;

(g) suffers to be at large any unmuzzled ferocious dog or other
     animal, or sets on or urges any dog or other animal to
     attack, worry or put in fear any person or animal.

 (2) Any person who commits an offence under subsection (1)(f),
after having been previously convicted for an offence under that
subsection, shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000.

Offences relating to animals

 12.—(1) Any person who commits any of the following offences
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000:

       (a) being the owner or person in charge of any animal allows
            the animal to injure any tree or plant, or fence round any
            tree or plant, in or at the side of any public road, or to graze
            on the side of any public road;

       (b) allows any horse, cattle, goat, sheep or pig to stray upon, or
            tethers or pickets any such animal upon, any public road or
            State land or land in the possession of any local authority or
            public institution or land in the possession of any private
            person, without the permission of the owner or lawful
            occupier thereof;

       (c) leads or drives any horse, cattle, goat, sheep or pig in or
            near any public road without having them under proper
            control.

 (2) All damage done by an animal mentioned in subsection (1)(a) is
to be assessed by a Magistrate’s Court and is recoverable in the
manner provided by law for the recovery of fines before Magistrates’
Courts from the owner of the animal, together with any amounts to be
levied as fines.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
   Miscellaneous Offences

   (Public Order and Nuisance)

9  Act 1906                                                  2020 Ed.

Other offences relating to public road

 13.—(1) Any person who commits any of the following offences
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000:

   (a) lays any stone, brick or other article on any public road so
        as to cause an obstruction thereto, or so as to make the use
        of the road less convenient;

   (b) allows to remain on any public road any article which has
        fallen from any vehicle of which the person is in charge;

   (c) deposits or causes or allows any article or thing to be
       deposited on any public road or otherwise causes or allows
       that article or thing to create obstruction or inconvenience
       to the passage of the public for a longer period than is
       absolutely necessary for loading or unloading the article or
       thing;

   (d) causes or permits any cart, wheelbarrow, bicycle, tricycle
        or other vehicle to stand on any public road so as to create
        or to be likely to create obstruction or inconvenience to the
        passage of the public in that public road;

   (e) flies any kite, or plays at any game, or does any act which
       obstructs or interferes with the traffic in any public road, or
       the use of the wires of any telephone;

   (f) places any blind, shade, covering, awning or other
       projection over or along any public road if any part
       thereof is less than 2½ metres above the surface of that
       public road.

 (2) If it is proved that any article or thing has been deposited on any
public road from any building or land in contravention of
subsection (1)(c), it is presumed, until the contrary is proved, that
the occupier of the building or land has caused or allowed it to be so
deposited.

Excessive noise

 14.—(1) Any person who makes any noise by any instrument or
other means in such a manner as to cause or be likely to cause
annoyance or inconvenience to the occupier of any premises in the

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.  Act 1906                                                  10

vicinity or to any person lawfully using any public road or in any
public place shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

 (2) Any police officer, on any complaint that any person in any
premises or in any public place is making such noise as to cause
annoyance or inconvenience to the complainant, may enter upon the
premises or proceed to the public place and, after warning the person
reasonably suspected of making the noise, stop the making of such
noise whether by the removal of any instrument or object or in some
other appropriate manner.

Making of harassing or obscene telephone calls to emergency
telephone numbers

 14A.—(1) Any person who makes a telephone call to an emergency
telephone number with intent to annoy, abuse, threaten or harass any
person who answers the telephone call shall be guilty of an offence
and, subject to subsection (3), shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
one year or to both.

 (2) Any person who makes a telephone call to an emergency
telephone number and, upon the call being answered, makes or
solicits any comment, request, suggestion, proposal or other
comment, request, suggestion, proposal or other communication or
sound which is obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy or indecent, shall be
guilty of an offence and, subject to subsection (3), shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

 (3) Any person who uses a public telephone to commit an
offence —

       (a) under subsection (1) shall be liable on conviction to a fine
            not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 2 years or to both; and

       (b) under subsection (2) shall be liable on conviction to a fine
            not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 5 years or to both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
    Miscellaneous Offences

    (Public Order and Nuisance)

11  Act 1906                                                  2020 Ed.

(4) For the purposes of this section —

    (a) “emergency telephone number” means any telephone
         number which the Minister may, by order in the Gazette,
         declare to be an emergency telephone number; and

    (b) a person who makes a telephone call to an emergency
         telephone number and, upon the telephone call being
         answered, refuses to speak or immediately hangs up is
         presumed until the contrary is proved to have intent to
         annoy any person answering the telephone call.

 (5) In this section and section 14B, “public telephone” means a
telephone which is available for use by any member of the public with
or without payment.

Liability of subscriber

 14B.—(1) Any person being the subscriber to a telephone service
which has been used to commit an offence under section 14A shall,
unless the person proves to the satisfaction of the court that the person
had exercised due diligence to prevent the commission of the offence,
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to the subscriber of a public
telephone service.

Providing of information

 14C.—(1) A police officer may, for the purpose of investigating
into an offence under section 14A or 14B, by written notice require
any person to provide, within such period as may be specified in the
notice, any document or information as may be —

       (a) required by the police officer for the purpose of the
            investigation; and

       (b) within the knowledge, or in the custody or under the
            control, of such person.

 (2) No action, suit or proceedings lies against any person who has
provided any document or information to a police officer pursuant to
subsection (1).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.  Act 1906                                                  12

 (3) Any person who, on being required by a notice under
subsection (1) to provide any document or information, fails to
comply with the notice shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Communicating false message

 14D.—(1) Any person who transmits or causes to be transmitted a
message which the person knows to be false or fabricated shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [15/2019]

 (1A) However, a person is not guilty of an offence under
subsection (1) if the person proves, on a balance of probabilities,
that the transmission of the message has a legitimate purpose related
to public order, public safety or national security, or the prevention,
investigation or prosecution of offences.

                                          Illustration

      As part of a campaign to raise public awareness against phishing scams, a
government agency sends an email to various members of the public which
contains a false message that entices its recipient to click on a link which would
purportedly give free shopping vouchers. The link leads to a pop‑up message
informing the recipient that the message was a simulated phishing attempt, and
had it been genuine, the recipient could have activated malware to allow a
fraudster to steal money from his or her online account. The sending of the false
message has a legitimate purpose related to the prevention of offences.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2024 wef 17/06/2024]

 (2) In subsection (1) —

      “message” means any sign, signal, writing, image, sound,
         intelligence or information of any nature transmitted by
         telecommunications;

      “telecommunications” means a transmission, emission or
         reception of signs, signals, writing, images, sounds or
         intelligence of any nature by wire, radio, optical or other
         electromagnetic systems whether or not such signs, signals,
         writing, images, sounds or intelligence have been subjected

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
    Miscellaneous Offences

    (Public Order and Nuisance)

13  Act 1906                                                  2020 Ed.

    to rearrangement, computation or other processes by any
    means in the course of their transmission, emission or
    reception.

                                                              [15/2019]

Publication of identity information and accompanying false
statement of fact in relation to public servant

 14E.—(1) Any person who, by any means, publishes any identity
information of a public servant or a related person of a public servant,
accompanied by a false statement of fact relating to the public servant
that the person knows or has reason to believe is false —

       (a) with intent to prevent or deter the public servant from
            discharging his or her duty; or

       (b) in consequence of anything done or attempted to be done
            by the public servant in the lawful discharge of his or her
            duty,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3
years or to both.

 (2) In this section —

       (a) a statement of fact is a statement which a reasonable person
            seeing, hearing or otherwise perceiving it would consider
            to be a representation of fact; and

       (b) a statement is false if it is false or misleading, whether
            wholly or in part, and whether on its own or in the context
            in which it appears.

 (3) In this section —

      “identity information” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of
         the Protection from Harassment Act 2014;

      “public servant” has the meaning given by section 21 of the
         Penal Code 1871, and includes any person who, by virtue of
         any other written law, is deemed to be a public servant for the
         purposes of the Penal Code 1871;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.  Act 1906                                                  14

“publish”, in relation to a communication or statement, means to
   make the communication or statement available in any form
   such that the communication or statement is or can be heard,
   seen or otherwise perceived by the public in Singapore or a
   member of the public in Singapore, and includes cause to be
   published;

“related person”, in relation to a person, means another person
   about whose safety or wellbeing the firstmentioned person
   would reasonably be expected to be seriously concerned.

                                  [Act 21 of 2025 wef 17/08/2026]

Relief for occupier of premises from nuisance

 15.—(1) A Magistrate’s Court may act under this section on a
complaint made by the occupier of any premises on the ground that
the occupier of the premises is aggrieved by noise amounting to a
nuisance.

 (2) If the Magistrate’s Court is satisfied that the alleged nuisance
exists, or that although abated it is likely to recur on the same
premises, the Court is to make an order for either or both of the
following purposes:

       (a) requiring the defendant to abate the nuisance, within a time
            specified in the order and to execute any works necessary
            for that purpose;

       (b) prohibiting a recurrence of the nuisance, and requiring the
            defendant, within a time specified in the order, to execute
            any works necessary to prevent the recurrence.

 (3) Proceedings under this section are to be brought against the
person responsible for the nuisance or, if that person cannot be found,
against the owner or occupier of the premises from which the noise is
emitted or would be emitted.

 (4) A person who without reasonable excuse contravenes any
requirement of an order under subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                       Miscellaneous Offences

    (Public Order and Nuisance)

15                     Act 1906                               2020 Ed.

 (5) In any proceedings for an offence under this section in respect of
noise caused in the course of a trade or business, it is a defence to
prove that the best practicable means have been used for preventing,
or for counteracting the effect of, the noise.

(6) In this section —

    “noise” includes vibration;

    “person responsible”, in relation to the emission of noise, means
       the person to whose act, default or sufferance the noise is
       attributable; and where more than one person is responsible
       for the noise, this section applies to each of those persons
       whether or not what any one of them is responsible for would
       by itself amount to a nuisance, or would result in a level of
       noise justifying any proceedings under this section;

    “practicable” means reasonably practicable having regard
       among other things to local conditions and circumstances,
       to the current state of technical knowledge and to the
       financial implications.

Obstruction in canals, etc.

 16.—(1) Any person who in any river or canal in which the public
has a right of navigation, without the written permission of the
Deputy Commissioner of Police, the Director of Marine or the
Deputy Director of Marine —

       (a) leaves any boat or vessel at any place for a longer time than
            is necessary for loading and unloading;

       (b) refuses to move the person’s boat or vessel away from that
            place when so directed by any police officer;

       (c) leaves any raft or log or piece of timber or plank in any
            such river or canal more than one day after its arrival
            therein; or

       (d) erects in any such river or canal any stage or scaffolding,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $25.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.  Act 1906                                                  16

 (2) Such boat, vessel, raft, timber or plank may be removed by the
police.

 (3) The expense of such removal is recoverable as a fine from the
owner or person in charge of the same, and if not paid by the owner or
person may be recovered by distress and sale of the property of such
owner or person and of such boat, vessel, raft, timber or plank.

Penalty for depositing corpse or dying person

 17. Any person who deposits or causes to be deposited any corpse
or any dying person in any public place or in any private place
without the consent of the owner shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                    PART 3

                            OTHER OFFENCES

 18. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2015]

Soliciting in public place

 19. Every person who in any public road or public place
persistently loiters or solicits for the purpose of prostitution or for
any other immoral purpose shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000 and, in the case of
a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Riotous, disorderly or indecent behaviour in, or in immediate
vicinity of, certain places

 20. Any person who is found guilty of any riotous, disorderly or
indecent behaviour in any public road or in any public place or place
of public amusement or resort, or in the immediate vicinity of, or in,
any court, public office, police station or place of worship, shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both and, in the case of a second or subsequent

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
    Miscellaneous Offences

    (Public Order and Nuisance)

17  Act 1906                                                  2020 Ed.

conviction, to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                                                             [5/2015]

Wilful trespass on property

 21.—(1) Any person who without satisfactory excuse wilfully
trespasses on any ground belonging to the Government or
appropriated to public purposes, or in or on any dwelling house or
premises or any land or ground attached thereto, or on any boat or
vessel, not thereby in any of such cases causing any actual damage, or
not causing in the opinion of the Magistrate’s Court more than
nominal damage, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

 (2) Any officer or non-commissioned officer of the Singapore
Armed Forces or of any visiting forces lawfully present in Singapore
may, with or without warrant, arrest any person offending in his or her
view against the provisions of this section, and that person may be
brought before a Magistrate’s Court to be dealt with according to law.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2022 wef 28/10/2022]

Loitering in place, vessel, etc., without satisfactory explanation

 22.—(1) Any person who —

       (a) is a reputed thief, is found on board any vessel or boat, or
            loitering in any street, road, yard or other place and does
            not give a satisfactory account of himself or herself; or

       (b) is found in any dwelling house or other building without
            being able satisfactorily to account for his or her presence
            therein,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months.

                                                                                                           [15/2019]

 (2) Any offence under this section is deemed to be an arrestable
offence within the meaning of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

                                                                                                           [15/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.  Act 1906                                                  18

Carrying truncheons, etc., in public places

 22A.—(1) Except as provided in this section or any other written
law, a person must not, in any public place, carry or have in his or her
possession or under his or her control (whether or not in the
performance of his or her functions as a private investigator, security
officer or security service provider licensed under the Private
Security Industry Act 2007) any truncheon, handcuffs, or such
other weapon or equipment as may from time to time be specified by
the Minister by notification in the Gazette.

                                                                                                 [38/2007; 2/2012]

 (1A) A gun, an explosive or a weapon within the meaning of the
Guns, Explosives and Weapons Control Act 2021 must not be
specified under subsection (1).

                                                                                 [Act 3 of 2021 wef 01/07/2025]

 (2) Any private investigator, security officer or security service
provider licensed under the Private Security Industry Act 2007, or
any other person, who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one month or to
both.

                                                                                                 [38/2007; 2/2012]

 (3) Nothing in this section prohibits or prevents the carrying of any
truncheon, handcuffs or specified weapon or equipment by a police
officer, an auxiliary police officer or a forensic specialist acting in the
course of his or her duty as such in accordance with the Police Force
Act 2004, or a member of the Singapore Armed Forces or of any
visiting force lawfully present in Singapore under any law relating to
visiting forces.

                                                                                     [38/2007; 2/2012; 10/2015]

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

 (4) A private investigator, security officer or security service
provider who is licensed under the Private Security Industry
Act 2007 may be authorised to carry or have in his or her
possession in any public place any truncheon, handcuffs or
specified weapon or equipment if, and only if —

(a) the licensing officer under that Act is satisfied that it is
     necessary for the performance of his or her functions as a

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
    Miscellaneous Offences

    (Public Order and Nuisance)

19  Act 1906                                                  2020 Ed.

    private investigator, security officer or security service
    provider, and it is appropriate for permission to be given
    for such carrying or possession;

    (b) the private investigator’s licence, the security officer’s
         licence or the security service provider’s licence (as the
         case may be) is endorsed (with or without conditions) by
         the licensing officer to permit such carrying or possession;
         and

       (c) the truncheon, handcuffs, weapon or equipment is of the
            type approved by that licensing officer.

                                                                                                 [38/2007; 2/2012]

 (5) The Commissioner of Police may authorise, subject to such
conditions of authorisation as he or she thinks fit to impose, any
person, or every person belonging to a class of persons, to carry or
have in the person’s possession or under the person’s control in any
public place any truncheon, handcuffs or specified weapon or
equipment, if —

    (a) the Commissioner of Police is satisfied that such carrying,
         possession or control is necessary in the circumstances,
         and it is appropriate for permission to be given for such
         carrying, possession or control; and

      (b) the truncheon, handcuffs, weapon or equipment is of the
           type approved by the Commissioner of Police.

                                                                                                           [2/2012]

(6) The Commissioner of Police may at any time —

    (a) revoke any authorisation under subsection (5); or

      (b) add to, vary or revoke any condition of authorisation
           imposed under subsection (5).

                                                                                                           [2/2012]

(7) In this section —

    “public place” includes any premises or place to which the
       public has or is permitted to have access, whether on the
       invitation of the owners or occupiers thereof or on payment
       or otherwise;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.  Act 1906                                                  20

“specified weapon or equipment” means any weapon or
   equipment specified by the Minister under subsection (1).

                                                                                                    [2/2012]

Penalty for taking intoxicant, etc., into public hospital

 23. Any person who takes or attempts to take without due
permission into any public hospital any intoxicating liquor, drug or
preparation shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 months, and such liquor, drug or preparation
and the vessels containing the same are to be forfeited.

Improper management of house of public resort

 24. Any person who being the keeper of any house licensed under
any written law as a public house or as a retail liquor shop or which is
used as a place of public entertainment or public resort —

       (a) knowingly permits any unlawful games or gaming therein;

       (b) knowingly permits prostitutes or persons of notoriously
            bad character or drunken and disorderly persons to
            assemble or continue in or upon the person’s premises;

       (c) knowingly allows the deposit therein of goods having
            reasonable cause to believe them to be stolen; or

       (d) does or permits any act in contravention of the person’s
            licence,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months, and to the forfeiture of the person’s licence, if any.

                                    PART 4
                                 VAGRANCY
Interpretation of this Part
 25. For the purposes of this Part, “place of public resort”, “public
place” and expressions of similar meaning are deemed to include

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
    Miscellaneous Offences

    (Public Order and Nuisance)

21  Act 1906                                                  2020 Ed.

every estate, factory or place in which 10 or more workmen are
employed.

Disorderly or indecent behaviour by prostitutes

 26. Every common prostitute wandering in any public road or place
of public resort and behaving in a disorderly or indecent manner is
deemed to be an idle and disorderly person within the meaning of this
Part and shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $1,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding one month.

Rogues and vagabonds

 27.—(1) Every person —

       (a) committing an offence under section 26, after having been
            previously convicted as an idle and disorderly person;

       (b) pretending or professing to tell fortunes in any manner
            which causes or is likely to cause a public nuisance, or
            using any subtle craft, means or device, by palmistry or
            otherwise, to deceive and impose upon any person;

       (c) wilfully exposing to view, in any street, road, highway or
            public place, any obscene print, picture or other indecent
            exhibition;

       (d) wilfully, openly, lewdly and obscenely exposing his or her
            person in any street, road or public highway, or in the view
            thereof, or in any place of public resort, with intent to insult
            any female;

       (e) going about as a gatherer or collector of alms, or
            endeavouring to procure charitable contributions of any
            nature or kind, under any false or fraudulent pretence;

        (f) having in his or her possession without lawful excuse any
            instrument or material with intent to commit any offence;

       (g) being found in or upon any dwelling house, or premises for
            the custody of property, or in any enclosed yard, garden or
            area, for any unlawful purpose; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.  Act 1906                                                  22

(h) arrested as an idle and disorderly person who violently
     resists arrest and being subsequently convicted of the
     offence for which he or she was arrested,

is deemed to be a rogue and vagabond within the meaning of this Part
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

 (2) Every suspected person or reputed thief, frequenting or loitering
in or about any river, canal or navigable stream, dock or basin, or any
quay, wharf or warehouse near or adjoining thereto, or any street,
highway or avenue leading thereto, or any place of public resort, or
any avenue leading thereto, or any street, highway or place adjacent
thereto, or in any highway or any place adjacent to a street or
highway, with intent to commit an arrestable and non‑bailable
offence, is deemed to be a rogue and vagabond within the meaning of
this Part and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both.

 (3) In proving the intent mentioned in subsection (2), it is not
necessary to show that the person suspected was guilty of any
particular act or acts tending to show his or her purpose or intent, and
the person may be convicted if, from the circumstances of the case,
and from his or her known character as proved to the court, it appears
that his or her intent was to commit an arrestable and non‑bailable
offence.

Appearing nude in public or private place

 27A.—(1) Any person who appears nude —

       (a) in a public place; or

       (b) in a private place and is exposed to public view,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months or to both.

 (2) For the purpose of this section, the reference to a person
appearing nude includes a person who is clad in such a manner as to
offend against public decency or order.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
    Miscellaneous Offences

    (Public Order and Nuisance)

23  Act 1906                                                  2020 Ed.

 (3) Where an offence under this section is committed in a private
place, it is lawful for a police officer to enter the private place without
the authority of the owner or occupier of the private place to effect the
arrest of the offender.

 (4) In effecting entry under subsection (3), it is lawful for a police
officer to use such force as may be necessary to enter the private
place.

Any person may arrest offender

 28. It is lawful for any person whatsoever to arrest any person found
offending against this Part and to deliver him or her to any police
officer.

Search of conveyance or goods of person arrested

 29. Any police officer or other person arresting any person charged
with being an idle and disorderly person, or a rogue and vagabond,
may take any vehicle or goods in the possession of that person as well
as that person before a police officer to be searched in the presence of
the police officer.

Search of premises for idle and disorderly person and rogue
and vagabond

 30. A Magistrate before whom information has been duly sworn
that any person described to be an idle and disorderly person, or a
rogue and vagabond, is or is reasonably suspected to be harboured or
concealed in any hotel, boarding house, lodging house or eating
house, may authorise any police officer to enter at any time into any
such hotel, boarding house, lodging house or eating house and to
arrest every such idle and disorderly person, rogue and vagabond
found therein.

Magistrate may take recognisances for good behaviour in
certain cases

 31. It is lawful for any Magistrate before whom any person is
convicted under this Part to call upon the person convicted to execute
a bond with sureties for the person’s good behaviour in lieu of being

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.  Act 1906                                                  24

punished but the Magistrate must not so call upon any person who has
been convicted for the second time of being a rogue and vagabond.

                                    PART 5

                                  TOUTING

Touting for business

 32. Any person in any public road, public place, place of public
resort or vehicle on a public road who, in connection with any trade or
business (whether or not carried on by that person), solicits any other
person persistently or in any manner as to cause or be likely to cause
annoyance to that other person shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine of not less than $1,000 and not more
than $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or
to both and, in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
of not less than $2,000 and not more than $10,000 or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding one year or to both.

Touting in public offices

 33.—(1) Any person who in any public office, or in the vicinity
thereof, solicits to offer or loiters for the purpose of offering in
connection with the public office his or her services to any one or
more persons having business at that public office or any other public
office (whether or not the services so offered relate to the business)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to —

       (a) any officer specifically appointed to advise the public on
            the business carried on in a public office; and

       (b) any person who is licensed under any written law or is
            otherwise authorised to act as a petition writer.

 (3) In this section, “public office” means any court and Government
office or department.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                    Miscellaneous Offences

                    (Public Order and Nuisance)

25                  Act 1906                                  2020 Ed.

Arrestable offence

 34. Every offence under this Part is deemed to be an arrestable
offence within the meaning of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

                                    PART 6

           FRAUDULENT POSSESSION OF PROPERTY

Fraudulent possession of property

 35.—(1) Any person who has in his or her possession or conveys in
any manner anything which may be reasonably suspected of being
stolen or fraudulently obtained shall, if the person fails to account
satisfactorily how he or she came by the same, be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $3,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both.

 (2) If any person charged with having or conveying anything stolen
or fraudulently obtained declares that he or she received the same
from some other person, or that he or she was employed as a carrier,
agent or servant to convey the same for some other person, the court
may cause every such other person, and also (if necessary) every
former or pretended purchaser or other person through whose
possession the same has passed (if such other person is alleged to
have had possession of the same within the jurisdiction of that court)
to be brought before it and examined, and is to examine witnesses
upon oath touching the same.

 (3) If it appears to the court that any person so brought before it had
possession of such thing and had reasonable cause to believe the same
to have been stolen or fraudulently obtained, that person shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one
year or to both.

 (4) In this section, “possession” includes possession in a house,
building, ship, vessel, boat or other place as well as possession in a
public road or place.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.              Act 1906                                      26

(5) Any person who —

(a) having been convicted of an offence punishable under this
     section or under Chapter 12 or 17 of the Penal Code 1871;
     or

(b) having been convicted in Malaysia or in Brunei
     Darussalam of an offence of a nature similar to any of
     those offences,

is subsequently convicted of an offence punishable under this section
shall be liable to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (6) If information is given on oath to a Magistrate’s Court that there
is cause to suspect that any property which may be reasonably
suspected of being stolen or fraudulently obtained is within any
house, building, ship, vessel, boat or other place, the Court may, by
warrant directed to any police officer, cause the house, building, ship,
vessel, boat or other place to be entered and searched at any hour of
the day or night.

 (7) The information mentioned in subsection (6) must describe the
property which it is reasonably suspected has been stolen or
fraudulently obtained, and must also describe the house, building,
ship, vessel, boat or other place in which the property is suspected to
be.

 (8) If upon the making of the search any property, such as that
described in the information, is found in the house, building, ship,
vessel, boat or other place, the police officer making the search or
some other police officer must convey the property before a
Magistrate’s Court or guard the property on the spot or otherwise
dispose thereof in some place of safety.

 (9) The police officer making the search or some other police
officer must also take into custody and bring before a Magistrate’s
Court every person in such house, building, ship, vessel, boat or other
place in whose possession or under whose control such property is
found.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
    Miscellaneous Offences

    (Public Order and Nuisance)

27  Act 1906                                                  2020 Ed.

 (10) Sections 31 and 37 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 apply
to searches made under subsections (6), (7), (8) and (9).

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

Secondhand dealers and money changers to report property
stolen or fraudulently obtained

 36.—(1) When any property has been stolen or fraudulently
obtained, and a written description of the property has been given
by any police officer to any dealer in secondhand goods or money
changer, and property answering the description of the property is in
the possession of such dealer or money changer or afterwards comes
into the dealer’s or money changer’s possession or is offered to the
dealer or money changer for sale or exchange, the dealer or money
changer must without undue delay give information of the property to
any police officer or at a police station, and must at the same time
state the name and address given by the person from whom the dealer
or money changer received that property or by whom it was offered to
the dealer or money changer for sale or exchange.

 (2) Any person who fails to give such information as the person is
required to give by this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

 (3) When, in the opinion of the court, the property is of such a
nature as to be difficult to identify no fine is to be imposed under this
section unless the court is of the opinion that the property has been
wilfully concealed by the accused.

Melting or defacing metals, etc., within 5 days of receipt

 37.—(1) A relevant person who —

       (a) melts, alters, defaces, puts away, disposes of or sells any
            goods, metals or articles; or

       (b) causes any goods, metals or articles to be melted, altered,
            defaced, put away, disposed of or sold,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                       Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.               Act 1906                                     28

shall be guilty of an offence if —

          (c) the act mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) was done —

          (i) within 5 days of receipt of the goods, metals or
              articles from any person other than another relevant
              person; or

          (ii) after receiving information from a police officer that
               the goods, metals or articles had been stolen or
               fraudulently obtained;

(d) the act mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) was done without
     the previous permission of the Director, Criminal
     Investigation Department; and

          (e) the goods, metals or articles were in fact stolen or
              fraudulently obtained.

 (2) A relevant person who is guilty of an offence under
subsection (1) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

(3) In this section —

“articles” means platinum, gold or silver articles;

“metals” means platinum, gold or silver;

“relevant person” means —

          (a) any pawnbroker or any dealer in secondhand goods;

          (b) any worker in platinum, gold or silver; or

            (c) any dealer in platinum, gold or silver articles.

                                                                             [Act 21 of 2025 wef 17/08/2026]

38. [Deleted by Act 21 of 2025 wef 17/08/2026]

Employees not affected

 39. Nothing in section 37 applies to any person employed by any
worker in platinum, gold or silver, or by any dealer in platinum, gold
or silver articles, for the purposes of the worker’s or dealer’s business.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 17/08/2026]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
    Miscellaneous Offences

    (Public Order and Nuisance)

29  Act 1906                                                  2020 Ed.

    PART 6A

    OFFENCES RELATING TO MISUSE OF SIM CARDS

                            [Act 16 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

Interpretation of this Part

 39A.—(1) In this Part —

      “compromised SIM card” means a SIM card that has been used
         either —

              (a) to commit, or to facilitate the commission of, a
                   criminal offence; or

              (b) to cause, or to facilitate the causing of, wrongful gain
                   or wrongful loss to any person;

      “personal information” means any information, whether true or
         not, about a person of a type that is commonly used alone or
         in combination with other information to identify or purport
         to identify a person, including (but not limited to) biometric
         data, name, address, date of birth, unique identification
         number, a written, electronic or digital signature, user
         authentication code, credit card or debit card number, and
         password;

      “retailer” means a person who, in the course of trade or business,
         provides the service of registering SIM cards for consumers;

      “scam offence” means any offence specified in the Schedule;

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

      “SIM card” means a prepaid or postpaid subscriber
         identification module (SIM) card (whether in physical or
         digital form) issued with a Singapore telephone number, but
         does not include a SIM card that is expired or that has been
         terminated;

      “telecommunication licensee” has the meaning given by
         section 2 of the Telecommunications Act 1999;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.  Act 1906                                                      30

“unique identification number” means —

          (a) in relation to an individual — an identity card
               number, passport number or the number of any other
               similar document of identity issued by a government
               authority as evidence of the individual’s nationality
               or place of residence, and includes a foreign
               identification number; and

          (b) in relation to an entity —

          (i) if incorporated or registered in Singapore, its
              Unique Entity Number (UEN); or

          (ii) if not incorporated or registered in Singapore,
               its foreign incorporation or registration
               number;

“unregistered SIM card” means a SIM card that has not been
   registered with a telecommunication licensee using a
   person’s personal information.

 (2) In this Part, a reference to a person doing an act for any gain is a
reference to the person doing the act for any gain —

(a) whether or not the gain is a wrongful gain;

(b) whether or not the gain is realised; and

          (c) whether the gain is to that person or to another person.

(3) For the purposes of this Part —

(a) a reference to a person (A) buying, renting, borrowing or
     receiving a SIM card from another person (B) includes a
     reference to A buying, renting, borrowing or receiving
     from B —

          (i) a mobile telephone or any other device containing
              the SIM card; or

          (ii) a means (such as an application, a code or a link)
               through which the SIM card in digital form can be
               downloaded; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
    Miscellaneous Offences

    (Public Order and Nuisance)

31  Act 1906                                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) a reference to A providing, selling, renting, lending or
         supplying a SIM card to B includes a reference to A
         providing, selling, renting, lending or supplying to B —

    (i) a mobile telephone or any other device containing
        the SIM card; or

    (ii) a means (such as an application, a code or a link)
         through which the SIM card in digital form can be
         downloaded.

                                          Illustration

      A registers for an eSIM using A’s personal information, and obtains a QR
code which A can use to download the eSIM onto A’s phone. A provides the QR
code to B for B to download the eSIM onto B’s phone. A has provided the eSIM
to B.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

Unlawful provision of SIM card registered using person’s
personal information

 39B.—(1) A person shall be guilty of an offence if the person —

       (a) provides, or offers to provide, a SIM card registered using
            the person’s personal information to another person; and

       (b) does so knowing, or having reasonable grounds to believe,
            that the provision of the SIM card is for any person —

               (i) to commit, or to facilitate the commission by any
                   person of, any offence under any written law; or

              (ii) to cause, or to facilitate the causing by any person of,
                   wrongful gain or wrongful loss to any person.

 (2) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (1) involving the
fault element mentioned in subsection (1)(b)(i), a person (A) who
does an act mentioned in subsection (1)(a) is presumed, until the
contrary is proved, to have reasonable grounds to believe that the
purpose of the provision of the SIM card is for a person to commit, or
to facilitate the commission by a person of, an offence under any
written law, if —

       (a) A does the act for any gain; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.  Act 1906                                                  32

(b) at the time A does the act, A fails to take reasonable steps to
     ascertain —

          (i) the identity and physical location of the person to
              whom the SIM card is provided; or

          (ii) the purpose for which the person obtains the SIM
               card from A.

 (3) For the purpose of proving a person’s state of mind under
subsection (1)(b), it is not necessary for the prosecution to prove that
the SIM card was used to commit, or to facilitate the commission of, a
specific offence.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), a person who is guilty of an offence
under subsection (1) shall be liable on conviction —

(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $10,000
     or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
     both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $20,000.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

 (5) Where an individual is convicted of an offence under
subsection (1) involving the fault element mentioned in
subsection (1)(b)(i), the individual shall, in addition to the
punishment under subsection (4)(a), be liable to caning of not
more than 12 strokes —

(a) if the individual knew that the provision or offer of the SIM
     card was for any person to commit, or to facilitate the
     commission by any person of, any scam offence; or

(b) if —

          (i) it is proved, to the satisfaction of the court, that the
              SIM card was used to commit, or to facilitate the
              commission of, a scam offence; and

          (ii) the individual is not able to prove, to the satisfaction
               of the court, that he or she had, at any time, taken
               reasonable steps to ensure that the SIM card would

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
    Miscellaneous Offences

    (Public Order and Nuisance)

33  Act 1906                                                  2020 Ed.

                   not be used to commit, or to facilitate the
                   commission of, a scam offence.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

 (6) For the purposes of subsection (5)(a), it is not necessary for the
prosecution to prove that the commission, or facilitation of the
commission, of a scam offence was carried out.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

 (7) For the purposes of subsection (5)(b)(i), it is not necessary for
the prosecution to prove that any person was convicted of the scam
offence.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

Unlawful provision, etc., of person’s personal information for
purpose of registering SIM card

 39C.—(1) A person shall be guilty of an offence if —

       (a) the person —

               (i) provides, or offers to provide, the person’s personal
                   information to be used by another person; or

              (ii) consents to, or offers to consent to, the person’s
                   personal information being used by another person;
                   and

       (b) the person does so knowing, or having reasonable grounds
            to believe —

               (i) that the person’s personal information will be used to
                   register a SIM card; and

              (ii) that the SIM card will be used —

                    (A) to commit, or to facilitate the commission by
                          any person of, any offence under any written
                          law; or

                     (B) to cause, or to facilitate the causing by any
                          person of, wrongful gain or wrongful loss to
                          any person.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.  Act 1906                                                  34

 (2) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (1) involving the
fault element mentioned in subsection (1)(b)(ii)(A), a person (A) who
does an act mentioned in subsection (1)(a) is presumed, until the
contrary is proved, to have reasonable grounds to believe that the SIM
card will be used to commit, or to facilitate the commission by a
person of, an offence under any written law, if —

(a) A does the act for any gain; or

(b) at the time A does the act, A fails to take reasonable steps to
     ascertain —

          (i) the identity and physical location of the person who
              uses A’s personal information to register the SIM
              card; or

          (ii) the purpose for which the person uses A’s personal
               information to register the SIM card.

 (3) For the purpose of proving a person’s state of mind under
subsection (1)(b), it is not necessary for the prosecution to prove that
the SIM card was used to commit, or to facilitate the commission of, a
specific offence.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), a person who is guilty of an offence
under subsection (1) shall be liable on conviction —

(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $10,000
     or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
     both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $20,000.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

 (5) Where an individual is convicted of an offence under
subsection (1) involving the fault element mentioned in
subsection (1)(b)(ii)(A), the individual shall, in addition to the
punishment under subsection (4)(a), be liable to caning of not more
than 12 strokes —

(a) if the individual knew that the personal information will be
     used to register a SIM card that will be used to commit, or
     to facilitate the commission by any person of, any scam
     offence; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
              Miscellaneous Offences

              (Public Order and Nuisance)

35            Act 1906                                        2020 Ed.

    (b) if —

    (i) it is proved, to the satisfaction of the court, that a
        SIM card registered using the personal information
        was used to commit, or to facilitate the commission
        of, a scam offence; and

              (ii) the individual is not able to prove, to the satisfaction
                   of the court, that he or she had, at any time, taken
                   reasonable steps to ensure that, the SIM card would
                   not be used to commit, or to facilitate the
                   commission of, a scam offence.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

 (6) For the purposes of subsection (5)(a), it is not necessary for the
prosecution to prove that the commission, or facilitation of the
commission, of a scam offence was carried out.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

 (7) For the purposes of subsection (5)(b)(i), it is not necessary for
the prosecution to prove that any person was convicted of the scam
offence.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

Transacting of SIM card registered using another person’s
personal information for criminal activity

 39D.—(1) A person shall be guilty of an offence if —

       (a) the person buys, rents, borrows or otherwise receives, or
            offers to buy, rent, borrow or otherwise receive —

               (i) a SIM card registered using another person’s
                   personal information; or

              (ii) an unregistered SIM card; and

       (b) the person does so intending to use the SIM card, or to
            supply the SIM card to any other person —

               (i) to commit, or to facilitate the commission by any
                   person of, any offence under any written law; or

              (ii) to cause, or to facilitate the causing by any person of,
                   wrongful gain or wrongful loss to any person.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.  Act 1906                                                  36

(2) A person shall be guilty of an offence if —

(a) the person sells, rents, lends or otherwise supplies, or
     offers to sell, rent, lend or otherwise supply, to another
     person —

          (i) a SIM card registered using any other person’s
              personal information; or

          (ii) an unregistered SIM card; and

(b) the person does so knowing, or having reasonable grounds
     to believe, that the SIM card will be used —

          (i) to commit, or to facilitate the commission by any
              person of, any offence under any written law; or

          (ii) to cause, or to facilitate the causing by any person of,
               wrongful gain or wrongful loss to any person.

 (3) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (1) or (2)
involving a SIM card registered using another person’s personal
information, it is a defence for the accused to prove that the accused
did not know, and had no reason to believe, that the SIM card was
registered using another person’s personal information.

 (4) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (1) involving the
fault element mentioned in subsection (1)(b)(i), a person (A) who
does an act mentioned in subsection (1)(a) is presumed, until the
contrary is proved, to have the intent to use or supply (as the case may
be) the SIM card to commit, or to facilitate the commission by a
person of, an offence under any written law, if —

(a) where the SIM card is a SIM card registered using another
     person’s personal information — A does the act for any
     gain; or

(b) it is proved that the SIM card is a compromised SIM card at
     the time A does the act.

 (5) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (2) involving the
fault element mentioned in subsection (2)(b)(i), a person (A) who
does an act mentioned in subsection (2)(a) is presumed, until the
contrary is proved, to have reasonable grounds to believe that the SIM

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
    Miscellaneous Offences

    (Public Order and Nuisance)

37  Act 1906                                                  2020 Ed.

card will be used to commit, or to facilitate the commission by a
person of, an offence under any written law, if —

    (a) where the SIM card is a SIM card registered using another
         person’s personal information — A does the act for any
         gain;

    (b) it is proved that the SIM card is a compromised SIM card at
         the time A does the act; or

    (c) where the SIM card is registered using another person’s
        personal information — at the time A does the act, A fails to
        take reasonable steps to ascertain —

    (i) the identity and physical location of the person to
        whom the SIM card is supplied; or

    (ii) the purpose for which the person receives the SIM
         card from A.

 (6) In addition to subsection (4), in proceedings for an offence
under subsection (1) involving the fault element mentioned in
subsection (1)(b)(i) where the charge is amalgamated or involves
more than one SIM card, a person (A) who does an act mentioned in
subsection (1)(a) is presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have the
intent to use or supply (as the case may be) the SIM card to commit,
or to facilitate the commission by a person of, an offence under any
written law, if the act concerns more than a total of 10 SIM cards
registered using another person’s personal information or
unregistered SIM cards, or a combination of both.

 (7) In addition to subsection (5), in proceedings for an offence
under subsection (2) involving the fault element mentioned in
subsection (2)(b)(i) where the charge is amalgamated or involves
more than one SIM card, a person (A) who does an act mentioned in
subsection (2)(a) is presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have
reasonable grounds to believe that the SIM card will be used to
commit, or to facilitate the commission by a person of, an offence
under any written law, if the act concerns more than a total of 10 SIM
cards registered using another person’s personal information or
unregistered SIM cards, or a combination of both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.  Act 1906                                                  38

 (8) For the purpose of proving whether a SIM card was used to
commit, or to facilitate the commission of, an offence, it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that a specific offence
occurred.

 (9) Subject to subsections (10) and (11), a person who is guilty of an
offence under subsection (1) or (2) shall be liable on conviction —

(a) in the case of an individual —

          (i) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment
              for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both; and

          (ii) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a
               fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a
               term not exceeding 5 years or to both; or

(b) in any other case —

          (i) to a fine not exceeding $20,000; and

              (ii) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a
                   fine not exceeding $40,000.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

 (10) Where an individual is convicted of an offence under
subsection (1) involving the fault element mentioned in
subsection (1)(b)(i), the individual shall, in addition to the
punishment under subsection (9)(a), be liable to caning of not
more than 12 strokes —

(a) if the individual intended to use the SIM card or to supply
     the SIM card to any other person, to commit, or to facilitate
     the commission by any person of, any scam offence; or

(b) if —

          (i) it is proved, to the satisfaction of the court, that the
              SIM card was used, or was supplied to another
              person, to commit, or to facilitate the commission of,
              a scam offence; and

          (ii) the individual is not able to prove, to the satisfaction
               of the court, that he or she had, at any time, taken
               reasonable steps to ensure that, the SIM card would

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
              Miscellaneous Offences

              (Public Order and Nuisance)

39            Act 1906                                        2020 Ed.

                   not be used to commit, or to facilitate the
                   commission of, a scam offence.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

 (11) Where an individual is convicted of an offence under
subsection (2) involving the fault element mentioned in
subsection (2)(b)(i), the individual shall, in addition to the
punishment under subsection (9)(a), be liable to caning of not
more than 12 strokes —

    (a) if the individual knew that the SIM card will be used to
         commit, or to facilitate the commission by any person of,
         any scam offence; or

    (b) if —

    (i) it is proved, to the satisfaction of the court, that the
        SIM card was used to commit, or to facilitate the
        commission of, a scam offence; and

              (ii) the individual is not able to prove, to the satisfaction
                   of the court, that he or she had, at any time, taken
                   reasonable steps to ensure that the SIM card would
                   not be used to commit, or to facilitate the
                   commission of, a scam offence.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

 (12) For the purposes of subsections (10)(a) and (11)(a), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the commission, or
facilitation of the commission, of a scam offence was carried out.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

 (13) For the purposes of subsections (10)(b)(i) and (11)(b)(i), it is
not necessary for the prosecution to prove that any person was
convicted of the scam offence.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

Transacting of SIM card registered using another person’s
personal information for consideration

 39E.—(1) A person shall be guilty of an offence if the person, in
exchange for any consideration —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.  Act 1906                                                  40

(a) buys or rents, or offers to buy or rent, a SIM card registered
     using another person’s personal information; or

(b) sells or rents, or offers to sell or rent, a SIM card registered
     using another person’s personal information to any other
     person.

 (2) However, a person is not guilty of an offence under
subsection (1) if the person proves, on a balance of probabilities,
that —

(a) the person did not know, and had no reason to believe, that
     the SIM card was registered using another person’s
     personal information;

(b) in the case of an offence under subsection (1)(a), the
     person bought or rented the SIM card for a lawful purpose;
     or

          (c) in the case of an offence under subsection (1)(b), the
              person did not know, and had no reason to believe, that the
              SIM card would be used to commit, or to facilitate the
              commission of, any offence.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

(a) in the case of an individual —

          (i) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment
              for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both; and

          (ii) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a
               fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a
               term not exceeding 5 years or to both; or

(b) in any other case —

          (i) to a fine not exceeding $20,000; and

          (ii) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a
               fine not exceeding $40,000.

                                                                    [Act 16 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
    Miscellaneous Offences

    (Public Order and Nuisance)

41  Act 1906                                                  2020 Ed.

Possession of SIM card registered using another person’s
personal information for criminal activity

39F.—(1) A person shall be guilty of an offence if —

    (a) the person possesses —

    (i) a SIM card registered using another person’s
        personal information; or

    (ii) an unregistered SIM card; and

    (b) the person intends to use the SIM card, or to supply the
         SIM card to any other person —

    (i) to commit, or to facilitate the commission by any
        person of, any offence under any written law; or

    (ii) to cause, or to facilitate the causing by any person of,
         wrongful gain or wrongful loss to any person.

 (2) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (1) involving a
SIM card registered using another person’s personal information, it is
a defence for the accused to prove that the accused did not know, and
had no reason to believe, that the SIM card was registered using
another person’s personal information.

 (3) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (1) involving the
fault element mentioned in subsection (1)(b)(i), a person (A) who
does an act mentioned in subsection (1)(a) is presumed, until the
contrary is proved, to have the intent to use or supply (as the case may
be) a SIM card for the purpose of committing, or facilitating the
commission by a person of, an offence under any written law, if it is
proved that the SIM card in A’s possession is a compromised SIM
card.

 (4) In addition to subsection (3), in proceedings for an offence
under subsection (1) involving the fault element mentioned in
subsection (1)(b)(i) where the charge is amalgamated or involves
more than one SIM card, a person (A) who does an act mentioned in
subsection (1)(a) is presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have the
intent to use or supply (as the case may be) a SIM card for the purpose
of committing, or facilitating the commission by a person of, an
offence under any written law, if A has in A’s possession more than a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.  Act 1906                                                  42

total of 10 SIM cards registered using another person’s personal
information or unregistered SIM cards, or a combination of both.

 (5) For the purpose of proving whether a SIM card was used to
commit, or to facilitate the commission of, an offence, it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that a specific offence
occurred.

 (6) Subject to subsection (7), a person who is guilty of an offence
under subsection (1) shall be liable on conviction —

(a) in the case of an individual —

          (i) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment
              for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both; and

          (ii) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a
               fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a
               term not exceeding 5 years or to both; or

(b) in any other case —

          (i) to a fine not exceeding $20,000; and

              (ii) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a
                   fine not exceeding $40,000.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

 (7) Where an individual is convicted of an offence under
subsection (1) involving the fault element mentioned in
subsection (1)(b)(i), the individual shall, in addition to the
punishment under subsection (6)(a), be liable to caning of not
more than 12 strokes —

(a) if the individual intended to use the SIM card, or to supply
     the SIM card to any other person, to commit, or to facilitate
     the commission by any person of, any scam offence; or

(b) if —

          (i) it is proved, to the satisfaction of the court, that the
              SIM card was used, or was supplied to another
              person, to commit, or to facilitate the commission of,
              a scam offence; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
    Miscellaneous Offences

    (Public Order and Nuisance)

43  Act 1906                                                  2020 Ed.

              (ii) the individual is not able to prove, to the satisfaction
                   of the court, that he or she had, at any time, taken
                   reasonable steps to ensure that the SIM card would
                   not be used to commit, or to facilitate the
                   commission of, a scam offence.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

 (8) For the purposes of subsection (7)(a), it is not necessary for the
prosecution to prove that the commission, or facilitation of the
commission, of a scam offence was carried out.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

 (9) For the purposes of subsection (7)(b), it is not necessary for the
prosecution to prove that any person was convicted of the scam
offence.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

Facilitation of fraudulent registration of SIM card that
facilitates criminal activity

 39G.—(1) A retailer or telecommunication licensee shall be guilty
of an offence if —

       (a) the retailer or telecommunication licensee registers a SIM
            card using any person’s personal information;

       (b) the retailer or telecommunication licensee does so
            knowing, or having reasonable grounds to believe —

               (i) that there was no authorisation given by the person
                   whose personal information is being used to register
                   the SIM card; or

              (ii) that the personal information given by the person
                   seeking to register the SIM card is false or
                   misleading; and

       (c) either of the following applies:

               (i) the retailer or telecommunication licensee does the
                   act mentioned in paragraph (a) knowing, or having
                   reasonable grounds to believe, that the SIM card will
                   be used —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.  Act 1906                                                  44

          (A) to commit, or to facilitate the commission by
               any person of, any offence under any written
               law; or

          (B) to cause, or to facilitate the causing by any
               person of, wrongful gain or wrongful loss to
               any person;

          (ii) the SIM card is used by any person —

          (A) to commit, or to facilitate the commission by
               any person of, any offence under any written
               law; or

          (B) to cause, or to facilitate the causing by any
               person of, wrongful gain or wrongful loss to
               any person.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), a person who is guilty of an offence
under subsection (1) shall be liable on conviction —

(a) in the case of an individual —

          (i) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment
              for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both; and

          (ii) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a
               fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a
               term not exceeding 5 years or to both; or

(b) in any other case —

          (i) to a fine not exceeding $20,000; and

              (ii) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a
                   fine not exceeding $40,000.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

 (3) Where an individual is convicted of an offence under
subsection (1) involving the fault element mentioned in
subsection (1)(c)(i)(A), the individual shall, in addition to the
punishment under subsection (2)(a), be liable to caning of not
more than 12 strokes —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
              Miscellaneous Offences

              (Public Order and Nuisance)

45            Act 1906                                        2020 Ed.

    (a) if the individual knew that the SIM card will be used to
         commit, or to facilitate the commission by any person of,
         any scam offence; or

    (b) if —

    (i) it is proved, to the satisfaction of the court, that the
        SIM card was used to commit, or to facilitate the
        commission of, a scam offence; and

              (ii) the individual is not able to prove, to the satisfaction
                   of the court, that he or she had, at any time, taken
                   reasonable steps to ensure that the SIM card would
                   not be used to commit, or to facilitate the
                   commission of, a scam offence.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (3)(a), it is not necessary for the
prosecution to prove that the commission, or facilitation of the
commission, of a scam offence was carried out.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (3)(b)(i), it is not necessary for
the prosecution to prove that any person was convicted of the scam
offence.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

 (6) For the purposes of this section, a reference to a retailer or
telecommunication licensee includes a reference to an employee of
the retailer or telecommunication licensee (as the case may be) acting
in the course of the employee’s employment.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

Offences under this Part committed outside Singapore

 39H. An offence under section 39B(1), 39C(1), 39D(1) or (2),
39F(1) or 39G(1) committed wholly or partly outside Singapore may
be dealt with as if the offence had been committed wholly within
Singapore, if —

       (a) the accused was in Singapore at the time the offence was
            committed; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.  Act 1906                                                  46

(b) the offence causes, or creates a significant risk of, direct
     and reasonably foreseeable harm in Singapore.

                                                                    [Act 16 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

Arrestable offence

 39I. Every offence under this Part is deemed to be an arrestable
offence within the meaning of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

                                    PART 7

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Power of arrest

 40.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any police officer
may arrest without warrant any person offending in the police
officer’s view against any of the provisions of this Act, and take the
person before a Magistrate’s Court to be dealt with according to law.

 (2) Any animal, conveyance or article concerning by or for which
an offence has been committed may be seized and taken to a pound or
police station unless given up sooner by order of a Magistrate’s Court,
until the charge is decided in due course of law.

Offences by corporations

 40A.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it
is necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                       Miscellaneous Offences

               (Public Order and Nuisance)

47                     Act 1906                               2020 Ed.

    (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
         corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
         of the corporation in relation to the commission of
         the offence; and

    (b) who —

    (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
        effect the commission of the offence;

    (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
         knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
         commission of the offence by the corporation; or

    (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
          offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
          type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
          take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
          commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

    (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871;

    (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
         regarding the admissibility of evidence; or

    (c) section 39.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

    “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
          Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.  Act 1906                                                  48

“officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
   partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
   officer of the corporation, and includes —

          (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

          (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
               members, any of those members as if the member
               were a director of the corporation;

“state of mind” of a person includes —

          (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
               of the person; and

          (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
               or purpose.

                                                                     [Act 16 of 2024 wef 17/06/2024]

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 40B.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it
is necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated
association or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct,
evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership (as the
case may be) had that state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                     Miscellaneous Offences

               (Public Order and Nuisance)

49                   Act 1906                                 2020 Ed.

    position to influence the conduct of the
    unincorporated association or partnership in
    relation to the commission of the offence; and

    (b) who —

    (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
        effect the commission of the offence;

    (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
         knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
         commission of the offence by the unincorporated
         association or partnership; or

    (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
          offence by the unincorporated association or
          partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
          be or is being committed, and failed to take all
          reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
          that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

    (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871;

    (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
         regarding the admissibility of evidence; or

    (c) section 39.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) does not affect the liability of an
unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under this
Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                       Miscellaneous Offences

          (Public Order and Nuisance)

2020 Ed.               Act 1906                                     50

(6) In this section —

“officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
   a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
   member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
   and includes —

          (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
               president, secretary or member of a committee of the
               unincorporated association; and

          (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

“state of mind” of a person includes —

          (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
               of the person; and

          (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
               or purpose.

                                                                     [Act 16 of 2024 wef 17/06/2024]

Regulations

 41. The Minister may make regulations for anything that is
required, permitted, expedient or necessary for carrying out the
purposes and provisions of this Act, including prescribing any
offences under this Act as offences that may be compounded if not so
prescribed by section 241 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

                                                                                                           [10/2015]

Amendment of Schedule

 42. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend the Schedule.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

                           THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                       Sections 39A(1) and 42

                                  SCAM OFFENCES
1. An offence under section 420(2) of the Penal Code 1871.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
    Miscellaneous Offences

    (Public Order and Nuisance)

51  Act 1906                                                  2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

2. An abetment of, or a conspiracy or an attempt to commit, an offence
   mentioned in item 1.

                                                                            [Act 21 of 2025 wef 30/12/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                    MISCELLANEOUS OFFENCES
                 (PUBLIC ORDER AND NUISANCE)

                                   ACT 1906

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                             PART 1
                SUMMARY JURISDICTION

                      ORDINANCE, 1871
                (ORDINANCE XIII OF 1871)

1. Ordinance XIII of 1871 — Summary Jurisdiction Ordinance, 1871

Bill                  : Information not available

First Reading         : 19 July 1871

Second Reading        : 3 November 1871

Notice of Amendments  : 17 November 1871

Third Reading         : 17 November 1871

Commencement          : 16 September 1872

Note: This Ordinance repealed part of Indian Acts 13 of 1856, 48 of 1860
        and 3 of 1863.

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                      ii

                                 PART 2
                    VAGRANCY ORDINANCE
           (CHAPTER 32, 1936 REVISED EDITION)

2. Ordinance VI of 1906 — The Vagrancy Ordinance 1906

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1542/1905

First Reading         : 22 December 1905

Second Reading        : 19 January 1906

Notice of Amendments  : 16 February 1906

Third Reading         : 2 March 1906

Commencement          : 2 March 1906

3. 1920 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 94 (Vagrancy)

Operation             : 28 November 1921

4. Ordinance 26 of 1921 — Statute Laws (Revised Edition) Operation
                                    Ordinance, 1921

   (Amendments made by section 3(a) read with Schedule C to the above
   Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1854/1921

First and Second Readings : 22 November 1921

Notice of Amendments  : 22 November 1921

Third Reading         : 22 November 1921

Commencement          : 28 November 1921 (section 3(a) read
                            with Schedule C)

5. Ordinance 12 of 1924 — Vagrancy Amendment Ordinance, 1924

Bill                  : G.N. No. 973/1924

First Reading         : 30 June 1924

Second Reading        : 15 September 1924

Third Reading         : 6 October 1924

Commencement          : 21 October 1924

6. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 94 (Vagrancy)

Operation             : 1 August 1926

7. Ordinance 10 of 1932 — Vagrancy (Amendment) Ordinance, 1932

Bill                  : G.N. No. 550/1932

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                      iii

First Reading         : 4 April 1932

Second Reading        : 30 May 1932

Notice of Amendments  : 30 May 1932

Third Reading         : 8 August 1932

Commencement          : 19 August 1932

8. Ordinance 8 of 1934 — The Vagrancy (Amendment) Ordinance, 1934

Bill                  : G.N. No. 45/1934

First Reading         : 12 February 1934

Second and Third Readings : 16 April 1934

Commencement          : 8 May 1934

9. 1936 Revised Edition — Vagrancy Ordinance (Chapter 32)

Operation             : 1 September 1936

                                   PART 3
           THE SUMMARY CRIMINAL JURISDICTION

                            ORDINANCE, 1872
                     (ORDINANCE XIII OF 1872)

10. Ordinance XIII of 1872 — The Summary Criminal Jurisdiction
                                        Ordinance, 1872

Bill                  : Information not available

First Reading         : 4 June 1872

Second Reading        : 3 October 1872

Notice of Amendments  : 8 November 1872

Third Reading         : 8 November 1872

Commencement          : 8 November 1872 (except sections 19,
                            20 and 21)
                            1 March 1873 (sections 19, 20 and 21)

                                  PART 4
                     VAGRANCY ORDINANCE
           (CHAPTER 125, 1955 REVISED EDITION)

11. Ordinance 37 of 1939 — Vagrancy Ordinance, 1939

Bill                  : G.N. No. 2460/1939

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                         iv

First Reading            : 28 August 1939

Second Reading           : 16 October 1939

Notice of Amendments     : 16 October 1939

Third Reading            : 16 October 1939

Commencement             : 15 December 1939

12. Ordinance 32 of 1950 — Vagrancy (Amendment) Ordinance, 1950

Bill                     : G.N. No. S 116/1950

First Reading            : 25 April 1950

Second Reading           : 23 May 1950

Select Committee Report  : Council Paper No. 59 of 1950

Third Reading            : 15 August 1950

Commencement             : 23 August 1950

13. 1955 Revised Edition — Vagrancy Ordinance (Chapter 125)

Operation                : 1 July 1956

14. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 179/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 5) Order, 1959

Commencement             : 20 November 1959

15. Ordinance 2 of 1961 — Common Gaming Houses Ordinance, 1961
     (Amendments made by section 25(2) of the above Ordinance)

Bill                     : 124/1961

First Reading            : 11 January 1961

Second Reading           : 22 February 1961

Notice of Amendments     : 22 February 1961

Third Reading            : 22 February 1961

Commencement             : 3 March 1961 (section 25(2))

16. Act 30 of 1965 — Destitute Persons Act, 1965
     (Amendments made by section 19 of the above Act)

Bill                     : 62/1965

First Reading            : 13 December 1965

Second and Third Readings : 31 December 1965

Commencement             : 9 May 1966 (section 19)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                      v

17. Act 14 of 1969 — Statute Law Revision Act, 1969
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the First Schedule to the above
     Act)

Bill                  : 22/1969

First Reading         : 15 October 1969

Second Reading        : 22 December 1969

Notice of Amendments  : 22 December 1969

Third Reading         : 22 December 1969

Commencement          : 2 January 1970 (section 2 read with
                            the First Schedule)

                                           PART 5
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENCES (PUBLIC ORDER AND NUISANCE) ACT

                                             1906
                              (2020 REVISED EDITION)

18. Ordinance XIII of 1906 — The Minor Offences Ordinance 1906

Bill                  : G.N. No. 453/1906

First Reading         : 4 May 1906

Second Reading        : 11 May 1906

Notice of Amendments  : 22 June 1906

Third Reading         : 29 June 1906

Commencement          : 29 June 1906 (assent)
                            6 July 1906 (publication)

Note: This Ordinance repealed An Act for regulating the sale of spirituous
        liquors etc. in cantonments (Indian Act XVIII of 1853), An Act for
        regulating the Police of the Settlements of Prince of Wales Island
        Singapore and Malacca (Indian Act XIII of 1856), An Act to amend
        Act XIII of 1856 (Indian Act XLVIII of 1860), An Act to amend the law
        regulating the Police of the Settlements of Prince of Wales Island
        Singapore and Penang (Act III of 1863) and The Summary Criminal
        Jurisdiction Ordinance, 1872 (Ordinance XIII of 1872).

19. Ordinance XXIV of 1907 — The Minor Offences Ordinance 1906
                                          Amendment Ordinance 1907

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1084/1907

First Reading         : 18 October 1907

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                      vi

Second Reading        : 15 November 1907

Third Reading         : 29 November 1907

Commencement          : 29 November 1907

20. Ordinance XXXIII of 1907 — The Repeal Ordinance 1907
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with Part I of the Schedule to the above
     Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1245/1907

First Reading         : 29 November 1907

Second Reading        : 6 December 1907

Notice of Amendments  : 13 December 1907

Third Reading         : 20 December 1907

Commencement          : 1 April 1908 (section 2 read with Part I
                            of the Schedule)

21. Ordinance XIV of 1908 — The Minor Offences Ordinance 1906
                                        Amendment Ordinance 1908

Bill                  : G.N. No. 878/1908

First Reading         : 21 August 1908

Second Reading        : 28 August 1908

Notice of Amendments  : 4 September 1908

Third Reading         : 11 September 1908

Commencement          : 1 January 1909

22. Ordinance V of 1909 — The Minor Offences Ordinance 1906
                                     Amendment Ordinance 1909

Bill                  : G.N. No. 316/1909

First Reading         : 19 March 1909

Second Reading        : 2 April 1909

Notice of Amendments  : 17 May 1909

Third Reading         : 11 June 1909

Commencement          : 17 June 1909

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                      vii

23. Ordinance XI of 1912 — The Public Authorities Protection Ordinance
                                      1912

     (Amendments made by section 3 read with the Schedule to the above
     Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N. No. 947/1912

First Reading         : 30 August 1912

Second Reading        : 20 September 1912

Notice of Amendments  : 4 October 1912

Third Reading         : 25 October 1912

Commencement          : 13 November 1912 (section 3 read
                            with the Schedule)

24. Ordinance VII of 1914 — The Minor Offences (Amendment) Ordinance
                                       1914

Bill                  : G.N. No. 26/1914

First Reading         : 30 January 1914

Second Reading        : 13 February 1914

Notice of Amendments  : 27 February 1914

Third Reading         : 13 March 1914

Commencement          : 25 March 1914

25. Ordinance 20 of 1918 — Minor Offences (Amendment) Ordinance, 1918

Bill                  : G.N. No. 711/1918

First Reading         : 17 June 1918

Second Reading        : 1 July 1918

Notice of Amendments  : 29 July 1918

Third Reading         : 29 July 1918

Commencement          : 2 August 1918

26. Ordinance 39 of 1919 — Minor Offences (Amendment) Ordinance, 1919

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1527/1919

First Reading         : 27 October 1919

Second Reading        : 10 November 1919

Third Reading         : 19 December 1919

Commencement          : 31 December 1919

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                         viii

27. 1920 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 96 (Minor Offences)

Operation                : 28 November 1921

28. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 96 (Minor Offences)

Operation                : 1 August 1926

29. Ordinance 24 of 1926 — The Minor Offences (Amendment) Ordinance,
                                      1926

Bill                     : G.N. No. 1151/1926

First Reading            : 12 July 1926

Second Reading           : 6 September 1926

Third Reading            : 11 October 1926

Commencement             : 27 October 1926

30. Ordinance 2 of 1931 — Minor Offences (Amendment) Ordinance, 1931

Bill                     : G.N. No. 148/1931

First Reading            : 26 January 1931

Second and Third Readings : 23 March 1931

Commencement             : 10 April 1931

31. Ordinance 12 of 1933 — Minor Offences (Amendment) Ordinance, 1933

Bill                     : G.N. No. 381/1933

First Reading            : 6 March 1933

Second Reading           : 1 May 1933

Notice of Amendments     : 1 May 1933

Third Reading            : 1 May 1933

Commencement             : 11 May 1933

32. Ordinance 19 of 1933 — Traffic Regulation Ordinance, 1933
     (Amendments made by section 6 read with the Schedule to the above
     Ordinance)

Bill                     : G.N. No. 6/1933

First Reading            : 16 January 1933

Second Reading           : 6 March 1933

Select Committee Report  : Council Paper No. 25 of 1933

Notice of Amendments     : 1 May 1933

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                         ix

Third Reading            : 31 July 1933

Commencement             : 27 September 1933 (section 6 read
                               with the Schedule)

33. Ordinance 6 of 1934 — Minor Offences (Amendment) Ordinance, 1934

Bill                     : G.N. No. 1659/1933

First Reading            : 2 October 1933

Second Reading           : 4 December 1933

Select Committee Report  : Council Paper No. II of 1934

Notice of Amendments     : 12 February 1934

Third Reading            : 12 February 1934

Commencement             : 21 March 1934

34. Ordinance 40 of 1935 — The Minor Offences (Amendment) Ordinance,
                                      1935

Bill                     : G.N. No. 2122/1935

First Reading            : 26 August 1935

Second Reading           : 28 October 1935

Notice of Amendments     : 28 October 1935

Third Reading            : 28 October 1935

Commencement             : 9 November 1935

35. Ordinance 63 of 1935 — Statute Law Revision Ordinance, 1935
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with item (bb) of the First Schedule to
     the above Ordinance)

Bill                     : G.N. No. 3043/1935

First Reading            : 20 November 1935

Second Reading           : 9 December 1935

Notice of Amendments     : 9 December 1935

Third Reading            : 9 December 1935

Commencement             : 31 December 1935 (section 2 read
                               with item (bb) of the First Schedule)

36. 1936 Revised Edition — Minor Offences Ordinance (Chapter 24)

Operation                : 1 September 1936

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                      x

37. Ordinance 41 of 1936 — Statute Law (Revised Edition) Amendment
                                      Ordinance, 1936

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with paragraph I of the Schedule to the
     above Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N. No. 3285/1936

First and Second Readings : 7 December 1936

Notice of Amendments  : 7 December 1936

Third Reading         : 7 December 1936

Commencement          : 30 December 1936 (section 2 read
                            with paragraph I of the Schedule)

38. Ordinance 26 of 1937 — Minor Offences (Amendment) Ordinance, 1937

Bill No.              : G.N. No. 1597/1937

First Reading         : 14 June 1937

Second Reading        : 30 August 1937

Notice of Amendments  : 30 August 1937

Third Reading         : 30 August 1937

Commencement          : 14 September 1937

39. Ordinance 32 of 1937 — Minor Offences (Amendment No. 2) Ordinance,
                                     1937

Bill                  : G.N. No. 2327/1937

First Reading         : 30 August 1937

Second and Third Readings : 25 October 1937

Commencement          : 18 November 1937

40. Ordinance 27 of 1938 — Minor Offences (Amendment) Ordinance, 1938

Bill                  : G.N. No. 2800/1938

First Reading         : 31 October 1938

Second and Third Readings : 23 November 1938

Commencement          : 6 December 1938

41. Act 37 of 1939 — Vagrancy Ordinance, 1939
     (Amendments made by section 23 read with Schedule B to the above
     Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N. No. 2460/1939

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                         xi

First Reading            : 28 August 1939

Second Reading           : 16 October 1939

Notice of Amendments     : 16 October 1939

Third Reading            : 16 October 1939

Commencement             : 15 December 1939 (section 23 read
                               with Schedule B)

42. Ordinance 7 of 1940 — Minor Offences (Amendment) Ordinance, 1940

Bill                     : G.N. No. 3646/1939

First Reading            : 11 December 1939

Second and Third Readings : 12 February 1940

Commencement             : 6 March 1940

43. Ordinance 26 of 1949 — Married Women and Children (Maintenance)
                                      Ordinance, 1949

     (Amendments made by section 11 of the above Ordinance)

Bill                     : G.N. No. S 243/1949

First Reading            : 21 June 1949

Second and Third Readings : 28 July 1949

Commencement             : 10 August 1949 (section 11)

44. Ordinance 31 of 1950 — Minor Offences (Amendment) Ordinance, 1950

Bill                     : G.N. No. S 115/1950

First Reading            : 25 April 1950

Second Reading           : 23 May 1950

Select Committee Report  : Council Paper No. 58 of 1950

Third Reading            : 15 August 1950

Commencement             : 23 August 1950

45. Ordinance 20 of 1954 — Criminal Justice (Punishment — Amendment)
                                     Ordinance, 1954

     (Amendments made by section 3 read with Part II of the Schedule to the above
     Ordinance)

Bill                     : 28/1954

First Reading            : 17 August 1954

Second Reading           : 21 September 1954

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
               xii

Third Reading  : 12 October 1954

Commencement   : 18 December 1954 (section 3 read
                     with Part II of the Schedule)

46. Ordinance 8 of 1955 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Miscellaneous
                                    Amendments) Ordinance, 1955

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with item 3 of the Schedule to the above
     Ordinance)

Bill           : 45/1954

First Reading  : 14 December 1954

Second and Third Readings : 28 January 1955

Commencement   : 4 February 1955 (section 2 read with
                     item 3 of the Schedule)

47. Ordinance 37 of 1952 — Law Revision (Penalties Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1952

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with item 3 of the Schedule to the above
     Ordinance)

Bill           : 32/1952

First Reading  : 16 September 1952

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 1952

Commencement   : 30 April 1955 (section 2 read with
                     item 3 of the Schedule)

48. 1955 Revised Edition — Minor Offences Ordinance (Chapter 117)

Operation      : 1 July 1956

49. Ordinance 23 of 1956 — Minor Offences (Amendment) Ordinance, 1956

Bill           : 54/1956

First Reading  : 5 September 1956

Second and Third Readings : 3 October 1956

Commencement   : 19 October 1956

50. Ordinance 24 of 1959 — Minor Offences (Amendment) Ordinance, 1959

Bill           : 204/1959

First Reading  : 11 February 1959

Second and Third Readings : 3 March 1959

Commencement   : 20 March 1959

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                      xiii

51. Ordinance 69 of 1959 — Minor Offences (Amendment No. 2) Ordinance,
                                     1959

Bill                  : 33/1959

First Reading         : 22 September 1959

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 1959

Commencement          : 23 October 1959

52. Ordinance 71 of 1959 — Transfer of Powers Ordinance, 1959
     (Amendments made by section 4 read with the First Schedule to the above
     Ordinance)

Bill                  : 30/1959

First Reading         : 22 September 1959

Second and Third Readings : 11 November 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959 (section 4 read
                            with the First Schedule)

53. Ordinance 72 of 1959 — Transfer of Powers (No. 2) Ordinance, 1959
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the First Schedule to the above
     Ordinance)

Bill                  : 31/1959

First Reading         : 22 September 1959

Second Reading        : 11 November 1959

Notice of Amendments  : 11 November 1959

Third Reading         : 11 November 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959 (section 2 read
                            with the First Schedule)

54. Ordinance 58 of 1960 — Minor Offences (Amendment) Ordinance, 1960

Bill                  : 97/1960

First Reading         : 20 October 1960

Second and Third Readings : 16 November 1960

Commencement          : 25 November 1960

55. Ordinance 10 of 1962 — Minor Offences (Amendment) Ordinance, 1962

Bill                  : 167/1962

First Reading         : 15 January 1962

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                      xiv

Second and Third Readings : 14 March 1962

Commencement          : 23 March 1962

56. L.N. 231/1963 (G.N. Sp. No. S 4/1963) — Modification of Laws (Internal
                                                          Security and Public Order)
                                                          (Singapore) Order, 1963

Commencement          : 16 September 1963

57. L.N. 114/1965 (G.N. Sp. No. S 57/1965) — Modification of Laws (Minor
                                                            Offences) (Borneo States and
                                                            Singapore) Order, 1965

Commencement          : 25 March 1965

58. Act 33 of 1966 — Minor Offences (Amendment) Act, 1966

Bill                  : 28/1966

First Reading         : 17 August 1966

Second and Third Readings : 26 August 1966

Commencement          : 16 September 1966

59. Act 34 of 1967 — Minor Offences (Amendment) Act, 1967

Bill                  : 31/1967

First Reading         : 31 October 1967

Second and Third Readings : 14 November 1967

Commencement          : 1 December 1967

60. Act 14 of 1969 — Statute Law Revision Act, 1969
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the First Schedule to the above
     Act)

Bill                  : 22/1969

First Reading         : 15 October 1969

Second Reading        : 22 December 1969

Notice of Amendments  : 22 December 1969

Third Reading         : 22 December 1969

Commencement          : 2 January 1970 (section 2 read with
                            the First Schedule)

61. Act 18 of 1970 — Minor Offences (Amendment) Act, 1970

Bill                  : 12/1970

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                         xv

First, Second and Third  : 30 March 1970
Readings

Commencement             : 19 June 1970

62. 1970 Revised Edition — Minor Offences Act (Chapter 102)

Operation                : 15 April 1971

Note: This Revised Edition incorporated the Vagrancy Ordinance
        (Chapter 125, 1955 Revised Edition).

63. Act 24 of 1972 — Dangerous Fireworks Act, 1972
     (Amendments made by section 10 of the above Act)

Bill                     : 20/1972

First Reading            : 21 March 1972

Second and Third Readings : 2 June 1972

Commencement             : 1 August 1972 (section 10)

64. Act 21 of 1973 — Statutes of the Republic of Singapore (Miscellaneous
                             Amendments) Act, 1973

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                     : 16/1973

First Reading            : 7 March 1973

Second and Third Readings : 20 March 1973

Commencement             : 6 April 1973 (section 2 read with the
                               Schedule)

65. Act 2 of 1986 — Statute Law Revision Act 1986
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the First Schedule to the above
     Act)

Bill                     : 12/1985

First Reading            : 31 October 1985

Second and Third Readings : 10 January 1986

Commencement             : 31 January 1986 (section 2 read with
                               the First Schedule)

66. 1985 Revised Edition — Minor Offences Act (Chapter 184)

Operation                : 30 March 1987

67. Act 10 of 1989 — Minor Offences (Amendment) Act 1989

Bill                     : 16/1989

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
               xvi

First Reading  : 19 January 1989

Second and Third Readings : 16 February 1989

Commencement   : 9 June 1989

Note: The Minor Offences Act was renamed as the Miscellaneous Offences
        (Public Order and Nuisance) Act by this Act.

68. 1990 Revised Edition — Miscellaneous Offences (Public Order and
                                     Nuisance) Act (Chapter 184)

Operation      : 15 March 1990

69. Act 12 of 1996 — Miscellaneous Offences (Public Order and Nuisance)
                             (Amendment) Act 1996

Bill           : 2/1996

First Reading  : 18 January 1996

Second and Third Readings : 27 February 1996

Commencement   : 15 May 1996

70. 1997 Revised Edition — Miscellaneous Offences (Public Order and
                                     Nuisance) Act (Chapter 184)

Operation      : 30 May 1997

71. Act 3 of 2005 — CISCO (Dissolution) Act 2005
     (Amendments made by section 16 read with item (5) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 52/2004

First Reading  : 19 October 2004

Second and Third Readings : 25 January 2005

Commencement   : 10 June 2005 (section 16 read with
                     item (5) of the Schedule)

72. Act 38 of 2007 — Private Security Industry Act 2007
     (Amendments made by section 42 of the above Act)

Bill           : 26/2007

First Reading  : 16 July 2007

Second and Third Readings : 27 August 2007

Commencement   : 27 April 2009 (section 42)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                      xvii

73. Act 15 of 2009 — Public Order Act 2009
     (Amendments made by section 49(1) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 8/2009

First Reading         : 23 March 2009

Second and Third Readings : 13 April 2009

Commencement          : 9 October 2009 (section 49(1))

74. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 62 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                  : 11/2010

First Reading         : 26 April 2010

Second Reading        : 18 May 2010

Third Reading         : 19 May 2010

Commencement          : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                            item 62 of the Sixth Schedule)

75. Act 2 of 2012 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2012
     (Amendments made by section 28 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 22/2011

First Reading         : 21 November 2011

Second Reading        : 18 January 2012

Notice of Amendments  : 18 January 2012

Third Reading         : 18 January 2012

Commencement          : 1 March 2012 (section 28)

76. Act 17 of 2014 — Protection from Harassment Act 2014
     (Amendments made by section 22(2) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 12/2014

First Reading         : 3 March 2014

Second and Third Readings : 13 March 2014

Commencement          : 15 November 2014 (section 22(2))

77. Act 5 of 2015 — Liquor Control (Supply and Consumption) Act 2015
     (Amendments made by section 38(7) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 1/2015

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
                      xviii

First Reading         : 19 January 2015

Second and Third Readings : 30 January 2015

Commencement          : 1 April 2015 (section 38(7))

78. Act 10 of 2015 — Police Force (Amendment) Act 2015
     (Amendments made by section 46(4) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 5/2015

First Reading         : 29 January 2015

Second and Third Readings : 13 March 2015

Commencement          : 1 June 2015 (section 46(4))

79. Act 15 of 2019 — Criminal Law Reform Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 181 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 6/2019

First Reading         : 11 February 2019

Second Reading        : 6 May 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 6 May 2019

Third Reading         : 6 May 2019

Commencement          : 1 January 2020 (section 181)

80. 2020 Revised Edition — Miscellaneous Offences
                                     (Public Order and Nuisance)
                                     Act 1906

Operation             : 31 December 2021

81. Act 24 of 2022 — Singapore Armed Forces and Other Matters Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 15/2022

First Reading         : 4 July 2022

Second and Third Readings : 2 August 2022

Commencement          : 28 October 2022

82. Act 16 of 2024 — Law Enforcement and Other Matters Act 2024
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 14/2024

First Reading         : 7 March 2024

Second and Third Readings : 2 April 2024

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
               xix

Commencement   : 17 June 2024
                     1 January 2025

83. Act 43 of 2024 — Community Disputes Resolution (Amendment) Act
                             2024

Bill           : 30/2024

First Reading  : 9 September 2024

Second and Third Readings : 12 November 2024

Commencement   : 24 March 2025

84. Act 3 of 2021 — Guns, Explosives and Weapons Control Act 2021

Bill           : 44/2020

First Reading  : 3 November 2020

Second and Third Readings : 5 January 2021

Commencement   : 1 July 2025

85. Act 21 of 2025 — Criminal Law (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2025

Bill           : 15/2025

First Reading  : 14 October 2025

Second and Third Readings : 4 November 2025

Commencement   : 30 December 2025
                     17 August 2026

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
.                                 xx
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
               COMPARATIVE TABLE

           MISCELLANEOUS OFFENCES
        (PUBLIC ORDER AND NUISANCE)

                         ACT 1906

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

        2020 Ed.                    1997 Ed.
                  13A [Deleted by Act 17 of 2014]
—                 13B [Deleted by Act 17 of 2014]
—                 13C [Deleted by Act 17 of 2014]
—                 13D [Deleted by Act 17 of 2014]
—                 22—(1) [Deleted by Act 15 of 2019]
—
—                    (2) [Deleted by Act 15 of 2019]
—                    (3) [Deleted by Act 15 of 2019]
22—(1)               (4)
                     (5)
   (2)

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 17/8/2026
