THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
           POLICIES OF ASSURANCE ACT 1867

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                                  2020 Ed.

Policies of Assurance Act 1867

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

     1.  Assignees of life policies, empowered to sue
     2.  Defence or reply on equitable grounds
     3.  Notice of assignment
     4.  Principal place of business to be specified on policies
     5.  Mode of assignment
     6.  Receipt of notice of assignment
     7.  Interpretation
     8.  Short title
         The Schedule

An Act to enable assignees of policies of life assurance to sue thereon
  in their own names.

                                                         [12 November 1993]

Assignees of life policies, empowered to sue

 1. Any person or corporation now being or hereafter becoming
entitled, by assignment or other derivative title, to a policy of life
assurance, and possessing at the time of action brought the right in
equity to receive and the right to give an effectual discharge to the
assurance company liable under such policy for moneys thereby
assured or secured, shall be at liberty to sue at law in the name of such
person or corporation to recover such moneys.

Defence or reply on equitable grounds

 2. In any action on a policy of life assurance, a defence on equitable
grounds, or a reply to such defence on similar grounds, may be
respectively pleaded and relied upon in the same manner and to the
same extent as in any other personal action.

         1

                                                  31.12.2021
2  Policies of Assurance Act 1867  2020 Ed.

Notice of assignment

 3. No assignment made after the passing of this Act of a policy of
life assurance shall confer on the assignee therein named, his
executors, administrators, or assigns, any right to sue for the amount
of such policy, or the moneys assured or secured thereby, until a
written notice of the date and purport of such assignment has been
given to the assurance company liable under such policy at its
principal place of business for the time being; and the date on which
such notice was received shall regulate the priority of all claims under
any assignment; and a payment bona fide made in respect of any
policy by any assurance company before the date on which such
notice was received shall be as valid against the assignee giving such
notice as if this Act had not been passed.

Principal place of business to be specified on policies

 4. Every assurance company shall, on every policy issued by the
company, specify its principal place of business at which notices of
assignment may be given in pursuance of this Act.

Mode of assignment

 5. Any such assignment may be made either by endorsement on the
policy or by a separate instrument in the words or to the effect set out
in the Schedule, such endorsement or separate instrument being duly
stamped.
2020 Ed.  Policies of Assurance Act 1867                          3

Receipt of notice of assignment

 6. Every assurance company to whom notice was duly given of the
assignment of any policy under which the company is liable shall,
upon the request in writing of any person by whom any such notice
was given or signed, or of his executors or administrators, deliver an
acknowledgment in writing under the hand of the manager, secretary,
treasurer, or other principal officer of the assurance company, of its
receipt of such notice; and every such written acknowledgment, if
signed by a person being de jure or de facto the manager, secretary,
treasurer, or other principal officer of the assurance company whose
acknowledgment the same purports to be, shall be conclusive
evidence as against such company of it having duly received the
notice to which such acknowledgment relates.

Interpretation

 7. In the construction and for the purposes of this Act, “policy of
life assurance” or “policy” means any instrument by which the
payment of moneys by or out of the funds of an assurance company,
on the happening of any contingency depending on the duration of
human life, is assured or secured; and “assurance company” means
and includes every corporation, association, society, or company now
or hereafter carrying on the business of assuring lives, or
survivorships, either alone or in conjunction with any other object
or objects.

Short title
 8. This Act may be cited as the Policies of Assurance Act 1867.

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                            Section 5

  I, A. B., of, etc., in consideration of, etc., do hereby assign unto C. D., of etc., his
executors, administrators, and assigns, the [within] policy of assurance granted,
etc. [here describe the policy]. In witness, etc.

                                          31.12.2021
                          LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                  POLICIES OF ASSURANCE ACT 1867

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. 30 & 31 Vict., c. 144 — The Policies of Assurance Act, 1867

       Commencement                : 20 August 1867

       Application                 : 12 November 1993 (except section 8)

       Note: This Act (subject to the exceptions and amendments in the
               First Schedule to the Application of English Law Act 1993) was
               declared by the Application of English Law Act 1993 to apply or
               continue to apply in Singapore on 12 November 1993.

2. 1994 Revised Edition — Policies of Assurance Act (Chapter 392)

       Operation                   : 20 May 1994

                                Abbreviations

C.P.                Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.            Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S          Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.                Legislative Assembly

L.N.                Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

                    Legislation)

M. Act              Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.               Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.        Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number

                                                                   31.12.2021
