THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
           RADIATION PROTECTION ACT 2007

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
                                                                  2020 Ed.

Radiation Protection Act 2007

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Application of Act to Government
     2.
     3.

                                       PART 2
                               ADMINISTRATION

4. Administration of Act and appointment of authorised officers
5. Advisory and technical committees

                                       PART 3

    CONTROL OF IMPORT, EXPORT, ETC., OF RADIOACTIVE
            MATERIALS AND IRRADIATING APPARATUS

6. Control of import, export, etc., of radioactive materials
7. Control of import, export, etc., of irradiating apparatus

                                       PART 4
                                    LICENCES

8. Application for licences, etc.
9. Register of licences

                                        PART 5

      GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO OCCUPATIONAL
                             HEALTH AND SAFETY

10. Duties of licensees to employees
11. Duties of licensees to third parties

                                                  1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            2

          PART 6

          DISPOSAL OF RADIOACTIVE WASTE

Section   Disposal of radioactive waste
          Accumulation of radioactive waste
   12.    Director-General may dispose of radioactive waste
   13.    Transport of radioactive waste
   14.
   15.

                                        PART 7

                     INFORMATION AND DOCUMENTS

16. Maintenance of records, etc.
17. Power to obtain information and documents
18. Confidentiality

                                        PART 8

                                   INSPECTIONS

19. Interpretation of this Part
20. National inspectors and inspection
21. IAEA inspectors and inspection
22. Persons who may accompany IAEA inspectors
23. Written directions
24. Identification certificates
25. Warrant for national inspection
26. Warrant for IAEA inspection
27. Obligations of persons carrying out inspections

                                       PART 8A

                    OFFENCES RELATING TO NUCLEAR
                           MATERIAL CONVENTION

28. Interpretation and application of this Part
29. Use, etc., of nuclear material
30. Enhanced punishment for theft, etc., of nuclear material
31. Threat to commit certain offences
32. Use, etc., of nuclear material to cause damage to environment
33. Acts against nuclear facilities
34. Threats to commit offence under section 32 or 33
35. Export or import of nuclear material: extended jurisdiction
36. Information relating to offence

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
3        Radiation Protection Act 2007                             2020 Ed.

Section  Extraterritoriality
   37.   Assistance under Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters
   38.   Act 2000
         Extradition
   39.

                                           PART 9

                                     ENFORCEMENT

   40. Power of arrest
   41. Warrant for search and seizure
   42. Use of force
   43. Forfeiture
   44. False or misleading statements and documents
   45. Obstruction, etc., of authorised officer or IAEA inspector

                                          PART 10

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   46. Appeals
   47. Protection of persons acting under Act
   48. Public servants
   49. Fees, charges, etc., collected by authorised officer to be paid to

            Agency
   50. Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
   51. Jurisdiction of courts
   52. Penalty for offences not otherwise provided for
   53. Composition of offences
   54. Cost of enforcement
   55. Exemption
   56. Amendment of Schedules
   57. Regulations
   58. Saving for other written law
   59. Saving and transitional provisions

            First Schedule — Definition of nuclear material
            Second Schedule — Enhanced punishments for offences

                                      committed in relation to nuclear material

An Act to control and regulate the import, export, manufacture, sale,
  disposal, transport, storage, possession and use of radioactive
  materials and irradiating apparatus, to make provision in relation to

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            4

the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, to establish a system for
the imposition and maintenance of nuclear safeguards, and to
implement the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear
Material, and to provide for matters connected therewith.

                                                                                                        [20/2014]

                                                                [1 July 2007]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Radiation Protection Act 2007.

Interpretation
 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “Agency” means the National Environment Agency established
         under the National Environment Agency Act 2002;
      “authorised officer” means any person appointed as an
         authorised officer under section 4(2), and includes the
         Director-General;
      “Convention country” means a foreign country that is a Party to
         the Nuclear Material Convention;
      “conveyance” includes any vessel, train, vehicle, aircraft or
         other mode of transport;
      “country” includes a State or territory, as the case may be;
      “Director-General” means the Director-General of
         Environmental Protection appointed under section 3(1) of
         the Environmental Protection and Management Act 1999;
      “disposal”, in relation to waste, includes —
              (a) its removal, deposit or destruction;

              (b) its discharge, whether onto land, into water or air,
                   into a sewer or drain, or otherwise; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
5  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            2020 Ed.

   (c) its burial, whether underground or otherwise,

   and “dispose of” is to be construed accordingly;

   “IAEA” means the International Atomic Energy Agency
      established by the IAEA Statute;

   “IAEA inspector” means an individual designated as an
      inspector by the IAEA Board of Governors according to
      the procedures set out in the Safeguards Agreement to carry
      out an inspection or a visit in accordance with that
      Agreement;

   “IAEA Statute” means the Statute of the International Atomic
      Energy Agency, being the Statute ratified by Singapore on
      5 January 1967, and includes any amendment to, or
      substitution of, the Statute that is binding on Singapore;

   “ionising radiations” means electromagnetic radiations and
      corpuscular radiations which give rise to the formation of
      ion pairs on interaction with matter;

   “irradiating apparatus” means —

   (a) any apparatus that is capable of producing ionising
        radiation;

   (b) any apparatus of a prescribed type that is capable of
        producing non-ionising radiation; and

   (c) any component of or accessory to an apparatus
       described in paragraph (a) or (b);

   “licence” means a licence granted under section 8;

   “national inspector” means any person who is a national
      inspector by virtue of, or appointed under, section 20;

   “non-ionising radiations” means electromagnetic radiations and
      fields with wavelengths greater than 100 nanometers and all
      acoustic radiations and fields with frequencies below 16 Hz
      and above 16 kHz;

   “nuclear material” has the meaning given in the First Schedule;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            6

“Nuclear Material Convention” means the Convention on the
   Physical Protection of Nuclear Material adopted in Vienna on
   26 October 1979, as amended by the amendments adopted in
   Vienna on 8 July 2005;

“nuclear offence” means —

          (a) an offence under section 29, 31, 32, 33 or 34;

          (b) an offence specified in the Second Schedule
               committed in relation to any nuclear material;

          (c) an abetment of, or a conspiracy to commit, an offence
              mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b);

          (d) an attempt to commit an offence under section 29, 32
               or 33, or an offence mentioned in paragraph (b)
               except any offence under section 384, 385, 386, 387,
               388 or 389 of the Penal Code 1871 committed in
               relation to nuclear material; or

          (e) an act by a person which would make the person
              liable for an offence mentioned in paragraph (a), (b)
              or (d) by virtue of section 34, 35 or 37 of the Penal
              Code 1871;

“nuclear trafficking offence” means —

          (a) an offence under section 35;

          (b) an abetment of, or an attempt or conspiracy to
               commit, an offence under section 35; or

          (c) an act by a person which would make the person
              liable for an offence under section 35 or an attempt to
              commit such an offence by virtue of section 34, 35 or
              37 of the Penal Code 1871;

“owner”, in relation to any premises, includes —

          (a) the person for the time being receiving the rent for the
               premises, whether on the person’s own account or as
               an agent or a trustee for any other person, or the
               person who would so receive the rent if the premises
               were let to a tenant; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
7  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            2020 Ed.

   (b) the person whose name is entered in the Valuation
        List prepared under section 10 of the Property Tax
        Act 1960;

   “premises” includes —

   (a) messuages, houses, buildings and lands, whether
        open or enclosed, and whether public or private;

   (b) any place underground and any land covered by
        water; and

   (c) any structure or conveyance;

   “radiation” means ionising radiation or non-ionising radiation;

   “radioactive material” means any article containing a
      radioactive substance giving it a specific or total
      radioactivity exceeding the prescribed level, and includes
      any article containing any nuclear material;

   “radioactive substance” means a radionuclide or mixture of
      radionuclides, either alone or in chemical combination with
      other elements;

   “radioactive waste” means any waste which consists wholly or
      partly of —

   (a) the substance or article which, if it were not waste,
        would be radioactive material; or

   (b) a substance or an article which has been
        contaminated in the course of the production,
        keeping or use of radioactive material or by contact
        with, or proximity to other waste falling within
        paragraph (a);

   “radionuclide” means an isotope of any element which
      spontaneously emits any ionising radiation;

   “registered medical practitioner” means any person registered or
      deemed to be registered as a medical practitioner under the
      Medical Registration Act 1997;

   “Safeguards Agreement” means the Agreement between
      Singapore and the International Atomic Energy Agency for

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            8

          the Application of Safeguards in connection with the Treaty
          on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons signed on
          18 October 1977, and includes —

          (a) that Agreement as amended from time to time;

          (b) the protocol to that Agreement signed on 18 October
               1977, as amended from time to time; and

          (c) the protocol additional to that Agreement for the
              application of safeguards, signed at Vienna on
              22 September 2005;

“sell” includes —

          (a) supplying or otherwise dealing in or disposing of,
               whether by way of sale, loan or gift;

          (b) offering or attempting to sell, receiving for sale,
               exposing for sale, having in possession for sale,
               sending or delivering for sale, or causing to be sold,
               offered or exposed for sale; and

          (c) barter,

         and “sale” and “purchase” have corresponding meanings.

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

 (2) Unless the context otherwise requires, any word or expression
used and not defined in this Act but defined in the Safeguards
Agreement has the same meaning as in the Safeguards Agreement.

Application of Act to Government

 3.—(1) Except as provided in subsection (2), Parts 3 to 8 and 10 and
regulations made for the purposes of these Parts bind and apply to the
Government.

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

 (2) Nothing in this Act renders the Government liable to
prosecution for an offence.

                                                                              [2A

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
9  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            2020 Ed.

   PART 2

   ADMINISTRATION

Administration of Act and appointment of authorised officers

 4.—(1) The Director-General is charged with the general
administration of this Act and the exercise of the powers conferred
and duties imposed upon the Director-General by this Act.

 (2) The Director-General may in writing appoint any public officer,
or any officer of the Agency or any other statutory authority, to be an
authorised officer for the purposes of this Act.

 (3) Subject to any general or special directions of the Minister or the
Director-General, the powers conferred and duties imposed on the
Director-General by this Act may be exercised or performed by any
authorised officer.

                                                                                [3

Advisory and technical committees

 5.—(1) The Agency may appoint such advisory or technical
committees as the Agency thinks necessary for the purpose of
advising the Agency on any matter arising from the administration of
this Act.

 (2) The composition of such committees and the terms of
appointment of the members must be determined by the Agency.

                                                                                [4

                                    PART 3

 CONTROL OF IMPORT, EXPORT, ETC., OF RADIOACTIVE
          MATERIALS AND IRRADIATING APPARATUS

Control of import, export, etc., of radioactive materials

 6.—(1) A person must not, except under and in accordance with a
licence —

       (a) import into, or export out of, Singapore any radioactive
            material;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            10

(b) keep, have in the person’s possession or under the person’s
     control, or use any radioactive material;

          (c) manufacture, sell or otherwise deal in any radioactive
              material; or

(d) transport any radioactive material.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or to
both.

                                                                                [5

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

Control of import, export, etc., of irradiating apparatus

 7.—(1) A person must not, except under and in accordance with a
licence —

       (a) import into, or export out of, Singapore any irradiating
            apparatus;

       (b) keep, have in the person’s possession or under the person’s
            control, or use any irradiating apparatus;

       (c) manufacture, or otherwise produce, any irradiating
            apparatus; or

       (d) sell, deal with or otherwise deal in any irradiating
            apparatus.

 (2) Every person who sells any irradiating apparatus must
immediately give notice of the sale to the Director-General,
together with the name, address and prescribed particulars of the
person to whom it was sold, in such form and manner as may be
prescribed.

 (3) Every person who purchases any irradiating apparatus must
immediately give notice of the purchase to the Director-General,
together with the name, address and prescribed particulars of the
person from whom it was purchased, in such form and manner as may
be prescribed.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
11  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            2020 Ed.

 (4) A person must not dispose of any irradiating apparatus, whether
in a working condition or otherwise, without the prior written
approval of the Director-General.

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or to
both.

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (2), (3) or (4) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                [6

                                    PART 4

                                  LICENCES

Application for licences, etc.

 8.—(1) An application for the grant or renewal of a licence must be
made to the Director-General in such form and manner as the
Director-General may require and must be accompanied by the
prescribed fee.

 (2) An applicant for a licence must provide such information and
documents as the Director-General may in any case require.

 (3) The Director-General may —

       (a) grant or renew a licence subject to such conditions,
            limitations and exceptions as the Director-General may
            specify;

       (b) during the currency of a licence, revoke or vary any
            condition, limitation or exception attached to the licence,
            or attach new conditions, limitations or exceptions to the
            licence;

       (c) refuse any application for the grant or renewal of a licence;
            or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            12

(d) suspend a licence for such period as he or she may
     determine, or cancel a licence.

 (4) A licence, unless earlier cancelled or suspended, remains in
force for such period as may be specified in the licence.

                                                                                [7

Register of licences

 9.—(1) The Director-General must keep or cause to be kept such
registers of licences as may be prescribed.

 (2) The contents of every such register may be evidenced in any
proceedings by a certificate under the hand of the Director-General,
and every such certificate is prima facie evidence of the matters stated
therein.

 (3) A certificate under the hand of the Director-General stating that
on a date specified in the certificate any person named in the
certificate did or did not appear in any register as the holder of a
licence or any specified class of licence is, until the contrary is
proved, sufficient evidence of the matters specified in the certificate.

                                                                                [8

                                    PART 5

  GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO OCCUPATIONAL
                         HEALTH AND SAFETY

Duties of licensees to employees

 10.—(1) Every licensee must provide and maintain, so far as is
practicable, for the licensee’s employees who are exposed or likely to
be exposed to radiations a working environment that is safe and
without risks to health.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), every licensee must —

       (a) protect or cause to be protected all of the licensee’s
            employees from exposure to radiations;

       (b) provide such information, instruction, training and
            supervision to such employees as are necessary to enable

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
13  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            2020 Ed.

    the employees to perform their work in a manner that is
    safe and without risks to health;

    (c) submit such particulars as the Director-General may
        require regarding each of the licensee’s employees who
        is likely to be exposed to any radiation;

    (d) provide each of the licensee’s employees such monitoring
         equipment or devices as may be prescribed and require all
         such employees to wear these prescribed personnel
         monitoring equipment and devices; and

    (e) provide all of the licensee’s employees with prescribed
        medical examinations by such registered medical
        practitioners as the Director-General may approve.

 (3) The registered medical practitioners performing the medical
examinations under subsection (2)(e) must give notice to the
Director-General, in such form and manner as the Director-General
may require, of all employees of a licensee whose health is affected,
or is reasonably suspected to be affected, by radiations.

 (4) If the Director-General is satisfied that it is detrimental to the
health of any employee of a licensee if the employee continues to be
exposed to radiations, the licensee must not permit or require that
employee —

    (a) to perform any duty which will or is likely to cause that
         employee to be further exposed to radiations; or

      (b) to work in any place where that employee will be or is
           likely to be further exposed to radiations.

(5) In this section —

    (a) “employee”, in relation to a licensee, includes —

    (i) an independent contractor engaged by the licensee;
        and

    (ii) any employee of an independent contractor engaged
         by the licensee; and

    (b) the duties of a licensee extend to any independent
         contractor engaged by the licensee and to the employees

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            14

          of the independent contractor, in relation to matters over
          which the licensee —

          (i) has control; or

          (ii) would have had control but for any agreement
               between the licensee and the independent
               contractor to the contrary.
                                                                            [9

Duties of licensees to third parties

 11. Every licensee must ensure so far as is practicable that persons
(other than the licensee’s employees) are not exposed to risks to their
health or safety arising from the conduct of the undertaking or
activities of the licensee.

                                                                               [10

                                    PART 6

               DISPOSAL OF RADIOACTIVE WASTE

Disposal of radioactive waste

 12.—(1) A person must not, except with the prior written approval
of the Director-General and in accordance with such conditions,
limitations and exceptions as the Director-General may specify,
dispose of or cause to be disposed of any radioactive waste.

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                               [11

Accumulation of radioactive waste

 13.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), a person must not, except with
the prior written approval of the Director-General and in accordance
with such conditions, limitations and exceptions as the
Director-General may specify, accumulate any radioactive waste on
any premises.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
15  Radiation Protection Act 2007                             2020 Ed.

 (2) Where the disposal of any radioactive waste has been approved
by the Director-General under section 12 and, in accordance with that
approval, the radioactive waste is required or permitted to be
accumulated with a view to its subsequent disposal, no further
approval under subsection (1) is required to enable the radioactive
waste to be accumulated in accordance with the approval granted
under that section.

 (3) For the purposes of this section, where any radioactive material
is produced, kept or used on any premises and any substance arising
from the production, keeping or use of that radioactive material is —

    (a) accumulated in any part of the premises appropriated for
         the purpose; and

    (b) retained there for a period of 3 or more months,

that substance is, unless the contrary is proved, presumed —

    (c) to be radioactive waste; and

    (d) to be accumulated on the premises with a view to its
         subsequent disposal.

 (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

                                                                               [12

Director-General may dispose of radioactive waste

 14.—(1) If there is radioactive waste on any premises and the
Director-General is of the opinion that the radioactive waste is
unlikely to be lawfully disposed of, the Director-General has the
power —

       (a) to dispose of that radioactive waste in any manner that the
            Director-General thinks fit; and

       (b) to recover from the occupier of the premises or, if the
            premises are unoccupied, from the owner of the premises
            any expenses reasonably incurred by the Director-General
            in disposing of the radioactive waste.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            16

 (2) Subject to section 46, the decision of the Director-General is
final.

 (3) For the exercise of the power mentioned in subsection (1)(a),
the Director-General or any other authorised officer may do anything
necessary or expedient for carrying out the disposal of the radioactive
waste, including entering the premises and taking the radioactive
waste for disposal.

                                                                               [13

Transport of radioactive waste

 15.—(1) A person must not, except with the prior written approval
of the Director-General and in accordance with such conditions,
limitations and exceptions as the Director-General may specify,
transport any radioactive waste.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

                                                                               [14

                                    PART 7

                 INFORMATION AND DOCUMENTS

Maintenance of records, etc.

 16.—(1) Every licensee, and every person who has been granted
any approval by the Director-General under this Act, must —

       (a) keep and maintain such records in such form and manner,
            and containing such information, as may be prescribed;
            and

       (b) prepare and give to the Director-General such periodic
            reports and such special reports relating to the activity
            licensed or approved as may be prescribed or as the
            Director-General may direct.

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
17  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            2020 Ed.

conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

                                                                               [15

Power to obtain information and documents

 17.—(1) The Director-General may, by written notice to any person
whom the Director-General considers to be capable of giving any
information or document that is required to be given by Singapore to
the IAEA under the Safeguards Agreement, or to a Convention
country or the IAEA or any other international organisation under the
Nuclear Material Convention, require the person to give such
information or document to the Director-General in such form and
manner, and within such period, as may be specified in the notice.

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

 (2) Despite section 58, the duty to comply with a notice given under
subsection (1) is not affected by any obligation as to secrecy or other
restriction on disclosure, whether imposed by written law or
otherwise.

 (3) Any person who, without reasonable cause, contravenes a
notice given under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

                                                                               [16

Confidentiality

 18.—(1) Except as provided in subsection (2), every person
exercising any function under this Act must keep confidential any
information that is obtained pursuant to this Act concerning the
affairs of another person, including but not limited to information
with regard to any manufacturing process or trade secret.

 (2) The information in subsection (1) may be disclosed —

       (a) with the consent of the person to whose affairs it relates;

       (b) in connection with anything done for the purposes of this
            Act, the Safeguards Agreement or the Nuclear Material
            Convention;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            18

          (c) in connection with the investigation of a criminal offence
              or for the purposes of criminal proceedings;

(d) in compliance with the requirement of any court, tribunal,
     authority or person having lawful authority to require the
     production of documents or the answering of questions;

          (e) for the purpose of dealing with an emergency involving
              public safety or ensuring the security of Singapore; or

          (f) if the information is already in the public domain.

                                                                                                          [20/2014]

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$6,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

                                                                               [17

                                    PART 8

                               INSPECTIONS

Interpretation of this Part

 19.—(1) A reference in this Part to a compliance purpose is a
reference to the purpose of —

       (a) determining whether the provisions of this Act have been
            or are being complied with;

       (b) determining whether the conditions and limitations
            applicable to a licence have been or are being complied
            with by the licensee; or

       (c) ensuring the proper functioning at any premises of any
            device, apparatus or equipment installed in the course of an
            inspection.

 (2) A reference in this Part to an inspection power is a reference to a
power to —

       (a) search or examine any premises;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
19  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            2020 Ed.

    (b) inspect or examine any matter or thing (including
         examining and calibrating any irradiating apparatus,
         instrument or measuring and control equipment);

    (c) take samples of any matter or thing for the purpose of
        examination or testing;

    (d) measure any quantity of nuclear material;

    (e) examine, take extracts from, or make copies of, any
        document (including any record kept in accordance with
        the requirements of this Act or the conditions of a licence);

    (f) interview any person on the premises (including making
        recordings of such interviews);

    (g) operate any equipment (including electronic equipment)
         located at the premises if the person exercising the power
         believes, on reasonable grounds, that the equipment can be
         operated without damaging it;

    (h) operate any photographic or video-recording equipment
         anywhere in or around the premises;

    (i) operate any radiation detection or measurement device;

    (j) apply any surveillance or containment measures; or

    (k) do anything that is prescribed or that is necessary or
        expedient for the carrying out of any of the acts mentioned
        in paragraphs (a) to (j), including —

    (i) restricting or prohibiting the access of persons and
        vehicles to or from the premises; and

    (ii) applying labels, seals or other identifying and
         tamper-indicating devices.

 (3) A power under subsection (2)(a), (b), (c), (d), (g), (h), (i), (j) or
(k) may only be exercised in a manner that the person authorised to
exercise it believes, on reasonable grounds, to be in accordance with
safety procedures applicable at the premises.

                                                                               [18

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            20

National inspectors and inspection

 20.—(1) All authorised officers are national inspectors for the
purposes of this Act.

 (2) The Director-General may, in writing, appoint any other person
to be a national inspector.

(3) A national inspector may —

(a) with the consent of the person who owns, or who is in
     control of, any premises; or

(b) under a warrant issued under section 25 or 26 in respect of
     any premises,

enter the premises and exercise, on or in the premises, any inspection
power for a compliance purpose.

                                                                               [19

IAEA inspectors and inspection

 21. An IAEA inspector may —

       (a) with the consent of the person who owns, or who is in
            control of, any premises; or

       (b) under a warrant issued under section 26 in respect of any
            premises,

enter and inspect the premises pursuant to the Safeguards Agreement
and exercise, in connection with the inspection, any function
contemplated, and power provided for, in the Safeguards Agreement.

                                                                               [20

Persons who may accompany IAEA inspectors

 22.—(1) In order to facilitate an inspection under section 21, an
IAEA inspector may be accompanied by a national inspector.

 (2) A national inspector may exercise any inspection power for the
purpose of facilitating an inspection under section 21.

                                                                               [21

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
21                  Radiation Protection Act 2007            2020 Ed.

Written directions

 23.—(1) The Director-General may, by written notice, issue
directions to any person for the purpose of facilitating any
inspection under this Part.

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes any
direction given by the Director-General under subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                               [22

Identification certificates

 24. The Director-General must issue to every IAEA inspector and
national inspector a certificate identifying him or her as such IAEA
inspector or national inspector, as the case may be.

                                                                               [23

Warrant for national inspection

 25.—(1) A national inspector may apply for a warrant if the consent
of the person who owns, or who is in control of, any premises to enter
the premises to exercise any inspection power for a compliance
purpose cannot be obtained, or if the person refuses to give such
consent.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), a Magistrate who is satisfied that there
are reasonable grounds for believing that —

       (a) entry to the premises is necessary to exercise any
            inspection power for a compliance purpose; and

       (b) the consent of the person who owns, or who is in control of,
            the premises cannot be obtained or such consent is refused,

may, unconditionally or subject to conditions, issue a warrant
authorising the national inspector to enter the premises for the
purpose of exercising any inspection power for a compliance
purpose, at such time as may be specified in the warrant and
within 14 days of the issue of such warrant or within such longer
period as may be specified in the warrant.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            22

(3) The national inspector must —

(a) before applying for a warrant, make reasonable inquiries as
     to whether any other application for such a warrant has
     been made in respect of the premises concerned and, if so,
     the following matters:

          (i) the offence or offences (if any) alleged in respect of
              each application; and

          (ii) the results of each application; and

(b) disclose on the application for the warrant the results of the
     inquiries.
                                                                       [24

Warrant for IAEA inspection

 26.—(1) The Director-General may apply for a warrant on behalf of
an IAEA inspector or a national inspector if the consent of the person
who owns, or who is in control of, any premises to enter the premises
for the purposes mentioned in section 21 cannot be obtained, or if the
person refuses to give such consent.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), a Magistrate who is satisfied that there
are reasonable grounds for believing that —

       (a) entry to the premises is necessary for the purposes
            mentioned in section 21; and

       (b) the consent of the person who owns, or who is in control of,
            the premises cannot be obtained or such consent is refused,

may, unconditionally or subject to conditions, issue a warrant
authorising the IAEA inspector or the national inspector to enter
the premises for the purposes mentioned in section 21, at such time as
may be specified in the warrant and within 14 days of the issue of
such warrant or within such longer period as may be specified in the
warrant.

 (3) The Director-General must —

       (a) before applying for a warrant, make reasonable inquiries as
            to whether any other application for such a warrant has

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
23  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            2020 Ed.

    been made in respect of the premises concerned and, if so,
    the following matters:

    (i) the offence or offences (if any) alleged in respect of
        each application; and

    (ii) the results of each application; and

    (b) disclose on the application for the warrant the results of the
         inquiries.
                                                                           [25

Obligations of persons carrying out inspections

 27.—(1) Every national inspector must —

       (a) carry his or her identification certificate issued by the
            Director-General under section 24; and

       (b) produce his or her identification certificate to any person
            appearing to own, or be in control of, the premises
            entered —

               (i) on entering the premises (if such a person is then
                   present); or

              (ii) at any reasonable time after entering the premises, if
                   asked to do so by the person.

 (2) Every national inspector must —

       (a) if, at any time between the time of entry of any premises to
            be inspected and the time the inspection is completed, there
            is no person appearing to own, or be in control of, the
            premises, as soon as is practicable after completing the
            inspection give the owner, occupier or person in control of
            the premises a written notice stating that the premises have
            been entered, and specifying the following matters:

               (i) the time and date of entry;

              (ii) the circumstances and purpose of entry; and

             (iii) the name of every person entering;

       (b) where applicable, have a warrant with him or her and
            produce it if required to do so; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            24

          (c) where any matter, thing or document is taken, give the
              owner, occupier or person in control of the premises a
              written inventory thereof.
                                                                                 [26

                                   PART 8A

                OFFENCES RELATING TO NUCLEAR
                       MATERIAL CONVENTION

Interpretation and application of this Part

 28.—(1) In this Part —

      “armed conflict” does not include internal disturbances and
         tensions, such as riots, isolated and sporadic acts of violence,
         and other acts of a similar nature;

      “environment” includes land, air and water, and living
         organisms supported by any of those media;

      “military forces of a State” means —

              (a) the armed forces of a State which are organised,
                   trained and equipped under its internal law for the
                   primary purpose of national defence or security;

              (b) civilians who direct or organise the official activities
                   of those armed forces; or

              (c) civilians acting in support of the official activities of
                   those armed forces, if the civilians are under the
                   formal command, control and responsibility of those
                   forces;

      “nuclear facility” means a facility (including associated
         buildings and equipment) used for peaceful purposes in
         which nuclear material is produced, processed, used,
         handled, stored or disposed of, if damage to or interference
         with such facility could lead to the release of significant
         amounts of radiation or radioactive material;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
25  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            2020 Ed.

    “nuclear material” means —

    (a) plutonium except plutonium with an isotopic
         concentration of plutonium-238 exceeding 80%;

    (b) uranium-233;

    (c) uranium containing uranium-233 or uranium-235 or
        both in such an amount that the abundance ratio of the
        sum of those isotopes to uranium-238 is greater than
        the ratio of uranium-235 to uranium-238 occurring in
        nature;

    (d) uranium with an isotopic concentration equal to that
         occurring in nature; or

    (e) any material containing one or more of the foregoing,

        that is used for peaceful purposes, but does not include
        uranium in the form of ore or ore residue.

                                                                                                         [20/2014]

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) —

    (a) material is not used for peaceful purposes if it is used or
         retained for military purposes; and

    (b) a facility is not used for peaceful purposes if it contains any
         nuclear material which is used or retained for military
         purposes.

                                                                                                     [20/2014]

 (3) If in any proceedings a question arises whether any material or
facility was used for peaceful purposes, a certificate issued by the
Minister and stating that it was, or was not, so used at a time specified
in the certificate, is prima facie evidence of that matter.

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

 (4) This Part does not apply to —

    (a) the activities of armed forces during an armed conflict, as
         those terms are understood under international
         humanitarian law, which are governed by that law; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            26

(b) activities undertaken by military forces of a State in the
     exercise of their official duties, to the extent that those
     activities are governed by other rules of international law.
                                                                     [26A

                                                                                                 [20/2014]

Use, etc., of nuclear material

 29. Any person who, without lawful authority, receives, possesses,
uses, transfers, alters, disposes of, or disperses nuclear material,
where the act causes or is likely to cause —

       (a) death or serious injury to any person; or

       (b) substantial damage to property,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term which may extend to life imprisonment.

                                                                             [26B

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

Enhanced punishment for theft, etc., of nuclear material

 30.—(1) If, in a prosecution of a person for an offence under a
section of the Penal Code 1871 set out in the first column of the
Second Schedule, it is proved that —

       (a) the offence is committed in relation to nuclear material;
            and

       (b) the person knew that it was nuclear material,

then, in lieu of the term of imprisonment prescribed in that section,
the person shall be liable to the term of imprisonment set out in the
second column of that Schedule against that section.

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

 (2) Subsection (1) does not affect any liability of the person to, or
the jurisdiction of the court to impose, any other punishment
prescribed in that section of the Penal Code 1871.

                                                                             [26C

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
27  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            2020 Ed.

Threat to commit certain offences

 31.—(1) Any person who threatens to use nuclear material to
cause —

    (a) death or serious injury to any person; or

    (b) substantial damage to property,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term which may extend to 10 years.

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

 (2) Any person who threatens to commit, in relation to nuclear
material —

    (a) theft within the meaning of section 378 of the Penal
         Code 1871; or

    (b) robbery within the meaning of section 390 of the Penal
         Code 1871,

in order to compel a person, an international organisation, the
Government or the government of a country to do or refrain from
doing any act, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to imprisonment for a term which may extend to 10 years.

                                                                             [26D

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

Use, etc., of nuclear material to cause damage to environment

 32. Any person who, without lawful authority, receives, possesses,
uses, transfers, alters, disposes of, or disperses nuclear material,
where the act causes or is likely to cause substantial damage to the
environment, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to imprisonment for a term which may extend to life
imprisonment.

                                                                          [26DA

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

Acts against nuclear facilities
 33.—(1) Any person who —

       (a) commits an act that is directed against a nuclear facility, or
            that interferes with the operation of a nuclear facility; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            28

(b) does so intending that the act will cause, or knowing that
     the act is likely to cause —

          (i) death or serious injury to any person; or

          (ii) substantial damage to property or to the
               environment,

          by exposure to radiation or release of radioactive
          substances,

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                   [20/2014]

 (2) Any person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)
shall, on conviction —

(a) except in the cases mentioned in paragraphs (b) and (c), be
     liable to imprisonment for a term which may extend to life
     imprisonment;

(b) if the person had intended to cause serious injury to any
     person knowing that the injury is likely to cause his or her
     death, and death is caused, be subject to the same
     punishment as an act under section 300(b) of the Penal
     Code 1871; or

          (c) if the person had intended to cause death to any person and
              death is caused, be subject to the same punishment as an
              act under section 300(a) of the Penal Code 1871.
                                                                             [26DB

                                                                                                          [20/2014]

Threats to commit offence under section 32 or 33

 34. Any person who threatens to —

       (a) use nuclear material to cause substantial damage to the
            environment; or

       (b) commit an offence under section 33,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term which may extend to 10 years.

                                                                           [26DC

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
29  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            2020 Ed.

Export or import of nuclear material: extended jurisdiction

35.—(1) Any person who, outside Singapore —

    (a) unlawfully exports nuclear material from one country to
         another; or

    (b) unlawfully imports nuclear material into one country from
         another,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
5 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

 (2) A person guilty of an offence under this section may be
proceeded against, charged, tried and punished as if the offence is
committed in Singapore.

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

 (3) In subsection (1) —

    (a) an export of nuclear material from a country; or

    (b) an import of nuclear material into a country,

is unlawful if it is contrary to any prohibition or restriction on the
export or import (as the case may be) of nuclear material having
effect under or by virtue of the law of that country.

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

 (4) A statement in a certificate issued by or on behalf of the
government of a country outside Singapore to the effect that a
particular export or import of nuclear material is contrary to such a
prohibition or restriction having effect under or by virtue of the law of
that country, is prima facie evidence that the export or import is
unlawful for the purposes of subsection (3).

                                                                          [26DD

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

Information relating to offence

 36.—(1) Any person in Singapore who has information which the
person knows or believes may be of material assistance —

       (a) in preventing the commission by another person of an
            offence to which this section applies; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            30

(b) in securing the apprehension, prosecution or conviction of
     another person, in Singapore, for an offence involving the
     commission, preparation or instigation of an offence to
     which this section applies,

and who fails to disclose the information immediately to a police
officer shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 5 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

(2) This section applies to the following offences:

(a) an offence under section 29, 32 or 33;

(b) an offence specified in the Second Schedule committed in
     relation to any nuclear material.

                                                                                                 [20/2014]

 (3) No criminal or civil proceedings shall lie against a person for
any disclosure made in good faith under this section.

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

 (4) A person who makes a disclosure in good faith under this
section is not to be treated as being in breach of any restriction upon
the disclosure of information imposed by law, contract or rules of
professional conduct.

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

 (5) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect sections 128, 128A
and 129 of the Evidence Act 1893.

                                                                             [26E

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

Extraterritoriality

 37. Any person who, outside Singapore, commits an act that, if
committed in Singapore, would constitute a nuclear offence is
deemed to commit the act in Singapore and may be proceeded
against, charged, tried and punished accordingly.

                                                                             [26F

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
31  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            2020 Ed.

Assistance under Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters
Act 2000

 38.—(1) For the purposes of providing assistance under Part 3 of
the Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act 2000 to a foreign
country for a criminal matter involving a relevant offence of that
country, the relevant offence is deemed not to be an offence of a
political character.

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

 (2) In this section —

    “criminal matter” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
       Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act 2000;

    “relevant offence”, in relation to a Convention country,
       means —

    (a) an offence against the law of that country that
         consists of or includes conduct which, if it had
         occurred in Singapore, would have constituted a
         nuclear offence; or

    (b) an offence against the law of that country that
         consists of or includes conduct which would
         constitute a nuclear trafficking offence.
                                                                  [26G

                                                                                           [20/2014]

Extradition

 39.—(1) All nuclear offences are deemed to be extradition offences
for the purposes of Parts 3, 4 and 5 of the Extradition Act 1968.

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2022 wef 01/07/2022]

 (2) For the purposes of the Extradition Act 1968, the expression
“extradition offence”, in relation to a Convention country that is a
declared Commonwealth territory, is deemed to include relevant
offences.

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2022 wef 01/07/2022]

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), where no extradition treaty is in force
between Singapore and a Convention country that is not a declared

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            32

Commonwealth territory, a notification in the Gazette under section 4
of the Extradition Act 1968 may be made applying that Act as if there
were an extradition treaty between Singapore and that country.

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2022 wef 01/07/2022]

 (4) Where the Extradition Act 1968 is applied under subsection (3),
that Act has effect in relation to that country as if the only extradition
offences under that Act were the relevant offences of that country.

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2022 wef 01/07/2022]

 (5) Subsection (4) does not affect any other notification made under
section 4 of the Extradition Act 1968.

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

 (6) Where —

(a) an extradition treaty is in force between Singapore and a
     Convention country; and

(b) the treaty does not provide for the extradition of persons
     accused of or convicted of a relevant offence of that
     country,

a notification in the Gazette under section 4 of the Extradition
Act 1968 may be made applying that Act in relation to that country as
if the treaty provided for the matter mentioned in paragraph (b).

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

 (7) Where a notification mentioned in subsection (6) is made, any
limitation, condition, exception or qualification specified in any other
notification made under section 4 of the Extradition Act 1968, or in
any Order in Council mentioned in section 3 of that Act, in relation to
that country must, to the extent that it prevents the relevant offence
from being considered an extradition offence in relation to that
country, be disregarded in the application of that Act in relation to that
country.

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2022 wef 01/07/2022]

 (8) For the purposes of the Extradition Act 1968 —

(a) any act, wherever committed, which is a relevant offence
     of —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
33  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            2020 Ed.

      (i) a Convention country that is a declared
           Commonwealth territory; or

                                                                 [Act 17 of 2022 wef 01/07/2022]

     (ii) a Convention country that is not a declared
           Commonwealth territory in the case of which the
           Extradition Act 1968 has been applied by a
           notification in the Gazette made under section 4 of
           that Act,

                                                                 [Act 17 of 2022 wef 01/07/2022]

    is deemed to be an offence within the jurisdiction of that
    country; and

      (b) any such offence is deemed not to be an offence of a
           political character.

                                                                                                         [20/2014]

(9) In this section —

    “declared Commonwealth territory” has the meaning given by
        the Extradition Act 1968;

                                                                             [Act 17 of 2022 wef 01/07/2022]

    “relevant offence” —

    (a) in relation to a Convention country that is a Party to
         the amendments adopted in Vienna on 8 July 2005 to
         the Nuclear Material Convention, means —

    (i) an offence against the law of that country
        where the act or omission constituting the
        offence or the equivalent act or omission
        would, if it took place in Singapore —

    (A) constitute a nuclear offence; or

    (B) be such an offence if the description
         concerned contained a reference to any
         intent or state of mind on the part of the
         person committing the offence, or to any
         circumstance of aggravation, necessary
         to constitute the offence; or

    (ii) an offence against the law of that country
         where the act or omission constituting the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            34

          offence or the equivalent act or omission
          would —

          (A) constitute a nuclear trafficking offence;
               or

          (B) be such an offence if the description
               concerned contained a reference to any
               intent or state of mind on the part of the
               person committing the offence, or to any
               circumstance of aggravation, necessary
               to constitute the offence; or

          (b) in relation to any other Convention country, means an
               offence against the law of that country where the act
               or omission constituting the offence or the equivalent
               act or omission would, if it took place in
               Singapore —

          (i) constitute a nuclear offence, other than an
              offence under section 32, 33 or 34 or any
              offence mentioned in paragraph (c), (d) or (e)
              of the definition of “nuclear offence” in
              section 2(1) as it relates to any of those
              sections; or

          (ii) be such an offence if the description concerned
               contained a reference to any intent or state of
               mind on the part of the person committing the
               offence, or to any circumstance of aggravation,
               necessary to constitute the offence.
                                                                 [26H

                                                                                       [20/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
35               Radiation Protection Act 2007               2020 Ed.

                 PART 9

                 ENFORCEMENT

Power of arrest

40.—(1) An authorised officer may —

    (a) arrest without warrant any person whom he or she has
         reason to believe to be committing or to have committed an
         offence under section 6, 7, 12 or 15; and

    (b) search the person arrested and seize anything which he or
         she reasonably considers to be evidence of the commission
         of the offence.

(2) A woman or girl must not be searched except by a woman.

 (3) Where the authorised officer makes an arrest without warrant,
he or she must, without unnecessary delay, bring the person arrested
before a Magistrate.

 (4) The authorised officer must not detain in custody a person
arrested without a warrant for a longer period than is reasonable under
the circumstances of the case.

 (5) The period that a person arrested without a warrant may be
detained in custody must not exceed 48 hours, excluding the time for
any necessary journey to the Magistrate’s Court.

                                                                               [27

Warrant for search and seizure

 41.—(1) If a Magistrate is satisfied, on information on oath, that —

       (a) there is reasonable ground for suspecting that an offence
            under this Act is being, has been or is about to be
            committed on any premises; or

       (b) evidence of the commission of such an offence is to be
            found there,

the Magistrate may issue a warrant in writing to an authorised officer
to enter the premises, if necessary by force, at such time as may be
specified in the warrant and within 14 days of the issue of the warrant

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            36

(or within such longer period as may be specified in the warrant) and
to search them.

 (2) An authorised officer who enters the premises under the
authority of the warrant may —

(a) take with him or her such other person and such equipment
     as appear to him or her to be necessary;

(b) inspect any record, register or other document found on the
     premises which he or she has reasonable cause to believe
     may be required as evidence for the purposes of
     proceedings in respect of an offence under this Act;

          (c) take copies of, or seize and remove, such document;

(d) inspect, seize and remove any device, apparatus or
     equipment found on the premises which he or she has
     reasonable cause to believe may be required as such
     evidence;

          (e) inspect, sample, seize and remove any substance, material,
              or other matter or thing found on the premises which he or
              she has reasonable cause to believe may be required as
              such evidence; or

          (f) search or cause to be searched any person found on the
              premises whom he or she has reasonable cause to believe
              to be in possession or control of any document, device,
              apparatus, equipment, substance, material or other matter
              or thing.

(3) A woman or girl must not be searched except by a woman.
                                                                             [28

Use of force

 42. If force is required to enter and inspect any premises specified
in a warrant issued under section 25, 26 or 41 (whether by breaking
down a door or otherwise), or in breaking open anything in the
premises, the person executing the warrant may use such force as is
reasonable in the circumstances.

                                                                               [29

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
37          Radiation Protection Act 2007                    2020 Ed.

Forfeiture

 43.—(1) A court may order that anything shown to the court’s
satisfaction to be the subject matter of an offence under this Act or to
have been used in the commission of such an offence is to be forfeited
to the Agency, and either destroyed or otherwise dealt with in such
manner as the court may order.

 (2) The court may, in particular, order that the thing be dealt with as
the Director-General may think fit, and in such a case the
Director-General may direct that it be destroyed or otherwise dealt
with.

 (3) Where —

    (a) the court proposes to order anything to be forfeited under
         this section; and

    (b) a person claiming to have an interest in it applies to be
         heard by the court,

the court must not order it to be forfeited unless that person has been
given an opportunity to show cause why the order should not be
made.

 (4) The court may make an order under this section even though no
person has been charged with or convicted of an offence under this
Act in relation to the thing to be forfeited.

                                                                               [30

False or misleading statements and documents

 44. Any person who, for the purpose of obtaining (whether for the
person or any other person) the grant of any licence or approval under
this Act, or for any other purpose in relation to this Act —

       (a) in any document prepared pursuant to this Act, makes any
            declaration or statement or omits any matter knowing that,
            or being reckless as to whether, the declaration, statement
            or omission makes the document false or misleading in a
            material particular; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007  38

(b) otherwise produces or makes use of any document which
     the person knows is false or misleading in any material
     particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                               [31

Obstruction, etc., of authorised officer or IAEA inspector

 45.—(1) Any person who obstructs, hinders, resists or deceives any
authorised officer or IAEA inspector who is exercising any function
contemplated, or any power provided for, in this Act shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

 (2) Nothing in subsection (1) applies to a refusal to give consent to
entry —

       (a) by a national inspector who is not acting pursuant to a
            warrant mentioned in section 25 or 26;

       (b) by an IAEA inspector who is not acting pursuant to a
            warrant mentioned in section 26; or

       (c) by an authorised officer who is not acting pursuant to a
            warrant mentioned in section 41.
                                                                               [32

                                   PART 10
                             MISCELLANEOUS
Appeals
 46.—(1) Any person who is dissatisfied with any decision of the
Director-General under section 8, 14 or 15 may appeal to the Minister
in writing within 30 days of the communication to that person of the
decision of the Director-General.
 (2) Upon receipt of any appeal, the Minister must appoint one or
more persons to hear representations made by the appellant and the

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
39  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            2020 Ed.

Director-General and, if the appointed persons think fit, to inspect the
premises or irradiating apparatus and to report to the Minister, who
must thereupon determine the appeal as soon as practicable.

 (3) In the exercise of his or her power to determine an appeal, the
Minister may —

    (a) dismiss the appeal;

    (b) require the Director-General to issue a licence;

    (c) quash any suspension or cancellation of a licence, or
        substitute a suspension of a licence for cancellation or vice
        versa; or

    (d) vary or revoke any decision of the Director-General, or
         substitute any decision for a decision made by the
         Director-General.

(4) The decision of the Minister under this section is final.
                                                                             [33

Protection of persons acting under Act

 47. No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie personally against
any authorised officer, any person acting under the officer’s direction
and any other person for anything which is in good faith done or
intended to be done in the execution or purported execution of this
Act.

                                                                               [34

Public servants

 48. All authorised officers are deemed to be public servants for the
purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

                                                                               [35

Fees, charges, etc., collected by authorised officer to be paid to
Agency

 49. All fees, charges and other moneys recovered or collected by
the Director-General or any other authorised officer under this Act

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            40

(including sums collected for the composition of offences under
section 53) must be paid to the Agency.

                                                                               [36

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 50.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            a partner; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
            its governing body; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such an
            officer or member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
41               Radiation Protection Act 2007               2020 Ed.

(5) In this section —

    “body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership as
       defined in section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
       Act 2005;

    “officer” —

    (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
         partner, member of the committee of management,
         chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the body corporate and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity; or

    (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
         than a partnership), means the president, the
         secretary, or any member of the committee of the
         unincorporated association, or any person holding a
         position analogous to that of president, secretary or
         member of a committee and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity;

    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (6) The Minister may make regulations to provide for the
application of any provision of this section, with such
modifications as the Minister considers appropriate, to any body
corporate or unincorporated association formed or recognised under
the law of a territory outside Singapore.

                                                                               [37

Jurisdiction of courts

 51. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment in
respect of the offence.

                                                                               [38

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            42

Penalty for offences not otherwise provided for

 52. Any person who contravenes any provision of this Act for
which no penalty is expressly provided shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) in a case where the contravention is of such a nature as to
     endanger or is likely to endanger human life — to a fine not
     exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
     exceeding 12 months or to both; or

(b) in any other case — to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
     imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to both.
                                                                       [39

Composition of offences

 53.—(1) The Director-General may compound any offence under
this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting
from a person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence
a sum not exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $15,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum, no further proceedings are to be taken
against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations to prescribe the offences that may be compounded.

                                                                               [40

Cost of enforcement

 54. Where a person has been convicted by a court for an offence
under section 6 or 7 or under Part 8A, the court may order that person
to pay reasonable costs of any enforcement action taken by an
authorised officer in respect of the offence, including any cost of
storage of the subject matter of the offence or anything used in the
commission of the offence.

                                                                             [40A

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
43         Radiation Protection Act 2007                     2020 Ed.

Exemption

 55. The Agency may, subject to the general or special directions of
the Minister, either permanently or for such period as the Agency
thinks fit, by regulations exempt any, or any class of, person,
premises, material or thing from all or any of the provisions of this
Act, subject to such terms or conditions as may be prescribed.

                                                                               [41

Amendment of Schedules

 56.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend, add to
or vary the First or Second Schedule.

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

 (2) The Minister may, in any order made under subsection (1),
make such incidental, consequential or supplementary provisions as
may be necessary or expedient.

 (3) Any order made under subsection (1) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

                                                                               [42

Regulations

 57.—(1) The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, make
such regulations as may be necessary or expedient for giving full
effect to the provisions of this Act and for the due administration of
this Act and, in particular, may make regulations for or with respect
to —

       (a) the form and manner of applying for and granting, and the
            fees for, licences and renewals of licences, and the matters
            to be taken into consideration in respect of any application
            for or for the renewal of a licence or in respect of any
            proposal to suspend or cancel a licence;

       (b) the granting of different classes or types of licences under
            this Act;

       (c) the form of the registers to be kept under this Act;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            44

(d) regulating the sale, purchase or manufacture of, or the
     dealing with, any radioactive substance and irradiating
     apparatus;

          (e) regulating the transport, storage, use and disposal of any
              radioactive substance or irradiating apparatus;

          (f) preventing injury by radiations to any person;

(g) securing the safe disposal of any radioactive waste product
     resulting from the manufacture, production, treatment,
     storage or use of any radioactive substance;

(h) imposing requirements with respect to the construction or
     structural alteration of buildings used or intended to be
     used for the manufacture, production, treatment, storage or
     use of any radioactive substance, or in which any
     irradiating apparatus is used or intended to be used;

          (i) requiring persons who are exposed or are likely to be
              exposed to the risk of disease due to radiation from any
              radioactive substance or irradiating apparatus to submit to
              screening and decontamination procedures by such
              persons as the Director-General may approve, as well as
              to medical examinations, including blood tests;

          (j) prohibiting the use of any prescribed radioactive substance
              or any prescribed class or description of irradiating
              apparatus either generally, or for prescribed purposes or
              otherwise than for prescribed purposes;

          (k) prescribing the maximum working hours and minimum
              age of persons engaged in the manufacture, production,
              treatment, storage, sale or use of any radioactive substance
              or the use, testing or repair of any irradiating apparatus,
              prescribing the minimum holidays to be taken by those
              persons, and providing for the medical examination of
              those persons;

          (l) prescribing personnel or area monitoring;

(m) regulating the use of any radioactive substance for
     therapeutic or diagnostic purposes;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
45  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            2020 Ed.

    (n) regulating the dispensing and compounding of any
         prescription containing any radioactive substance;

    (o) providing for the making of returns by owners of
         radioactive materials of the quantities and classes of
         radioactive materials held by them;

    (p) providing for the keeping by purchasers of radioactive
         substances of records specifying the purposes to which
         those substances are put, and for the inspection of those
         records, and for the making of returns of entries in those
         records;

    (q) providing for the keeping of records of any application of
         radioactive substances or irradiating apparatus for
         diagnostic or therapeutic purposes;

    (r) regulating the registration of mobile radioactive and
        irradiating laboratories;

    (s) prescribing the fees payable for services rendered by the
        Director-General;

    (t) prescribing offences in respect of the contravention of any
        regulation made under this section, and prescribing
        penalties, not exceeding $50,000 or an imprisonment
        term not exceeding 6 months or both, that may, on
        conviction, be imposed in respect of any such offence; and

    (u) any other matter required or permitted to be prescribed, or
         necessary or expedient to be prescribed, for carrying out or
         giving effect to the provisions of this Act.

                                                                                                     [20/2014]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Agency may, with the
approval of the Minister, make regulations for the purposes of
implementing the Safeguards Agreement, or any agreement that is
concluded between Singapore and the IAEA pursuant to the
Safeguards Agreement, and, in particular, may make regulations
for or with respect to —

    (a) imposing on any importer, exporter, agent, forwarding
         agent, common carrier, consignor or consignee of goods or
         on any owner, agent, master or person in charge of a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            46

          conveyance as may be prescribed in the regulations, the
          duty to provide —

          (i) to the Director-General; or

          (ii) to the owner, agent, master or person in charge of a
               conveyance, or to a railway stationmaster or to such
               other person as may be prescribed,

          such particulars, information or documents as may be
          prescribed in respect of any nuclear material that is
          imported or exported;

(b) requiring the master of any vessel to attend at the office of
     the Director-General or Port Master, and to provide such
     particulars, information and documents as may be
     prescribed;

          (c) prohibiting the issue of a port clearance to the master of
              any vessel pending compliance with any provision of the
              regulations; and

(d) the registration of any nuclear material that is imported or
     exported.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (1), the Agency may, with the
approval of the Minister, make regulations for the purposes of
implementing the Nuclear Material Convention, including for or with
respect to any of the matters mentioned in subsection (1), as well as to
prescribe measures for the physical protection of a nuclear facility
within the meaning of the Convention, including licensing the
operation of such facility.

                                                                               [43

                                                                                                           [20/2014]

Saving for other written law

 58. Nothing in this Act is to be construed as limiting or in any way
affecting the provisions of any other written law.

                                                                               [44

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
47  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            2020 Ed.

Saving and transitional provisions

 59.—(1) Any subsidiary legislation made under the repealed
Radiation Protection Act (Cap. 262, 1992 Revised Edition) and in
force immediately before 1 July 2007, so far as it is not inconsistent
with the provisions of this Act, continues in force as if made under
this Act until it is revoked or repealed.

 (2) Any written law or document referring to the repealed Radiation
Protection Act (Cap. 262, 1992 Revised Edition) or any provision of
that Act is, as far as may be necessary for preserving its effect, to be
construed as referring or as including a reference to this Act or the
corresponding provision in this Act, as the case may be.

                                                                               [45

                           FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                            Sections 2(1) and 56

                    DEFINITION OF NUCLEAR MATERIAL
1. In this Act, “nuclear material” means —

       (a) any source material (not being ore or ore residue); or
       (b) any special fissionable material.
2. For the purposes of paragraph 1 —
    “source material” means —

               (a) uranium containing the mixture of isotopes occurring in nature;
               (b) uranium depleted in the isotope 235;
               (c) thorium;
               (d) any of the foregoing in the form of metal, alloy, chemical

                    compound, or concentrate; or
               (e) any other material containing one or more of the foregoing in

                    such concentration as the IAEA Board of Governors determines
                    from time to time;
    “special fissionable material” means —
               (a) plutonium-239;
               (b) uranium-233;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.  Radiation Protection Act 2007                              48

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          (c) uranium containing the isotopes 235 or 233, or both, in an
              amount such that the abundance ratio of the sum of these
              isotopes to the isotope 238 is greater than the ratio of the
              isotope 235 to the isotope 238 occurring in nature; or

          (d) any material containing one or more of the foregoing,

          but does not include source material.

                                                                     [20/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
49                 Radiation Protection Act 2007             2020 Ed.

                     SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                Sections 2(1), 30(1), 36(2)(b) and 56

          ENHANCED PUNISHMENTS FOR OFFENCES
    COMMITTED IN RELATION TO NUCLEAR MATERIAL

    Offence under Penal Code .              Substituted imprisonment term
                                         Term which may extend to 5 years
    1. Section 379 (Theft)        —      Term which may extend to 10 years
                                         Term which may extend to 10 years
    2. Section 380 (Theft in      —
                                         Term which may extend to 15 years
    dwelling-house, etc.)
                                         Term of not less than 3 years and not
    3. Section 381 (Theft by clerk or —  more than 10 years
       servant of property in            Term of not less than 3 years and not
       possession of master)             more than 8 years
                                         Term of not less than 3 years and not
    4. Section 382 (Theft after   —      more than 15 years
                                         Term of not less than 3 years and not
    preparation made for causing         more than 10 years

    death or hurt in order to            Term which may extend to 15 years

    commit theft)                        Term which may extend to 15 years

    5. Section 384 (Extortion)    —      Term of not less than 3 years and not
                                         more than 15 years
    6. Section 385 (Putting person in —
       fear of harm in order to commit
       extortion)

    7. Section 386 (Extortion by —
       putting a person in fear of
       death or grievous hurt)

    8. Section 387 (Putting person in —
       fear of death or of grievous
       hurt in order to commit
       extortion)

    9. Section 388 (Extortion by —
       threat of accusation of an
       offence punishable with death,
       or imprisonment, etc.)

10. Section 389 (Putting person in —
     fear of accusation of offence,
     in order to commit extortion)

11. Section 392 (Robbery          —

    committed at or after 7 a.m.

    and at or before 7 p.m.)

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
2020 Ed.         Radiation Protection Act 2007                     50

                SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

Offence under Penal Code .                 Substituted imprisonment term
                                        Term of not less than 5 years and not
12. Section 392 (Robbery       —        more than 20 years
                                        Term of not less than 3 years and not
committed after 7 p.m. and              more than 10 years
                                        Term of not less than 8 years and not
before 7 a.m.)                          more than 30 years
                                        Term of not less than 8 years and not
13. Section 393 (Attempt to    —        more than 30 years
                                        Term of not less than 5 years and not
commit robbery)                         more than 15 years
                                        Term which may extend to 10 years
14. Section 394 (Voluntarily   —
                                        Term which may extend to 3 years
causing hurt in committing              Term which may extend to 10 years
                                        Term which may extend to 20 years
robbery)
                                        Term which may extend to 20 years
15. Section 395 (Gang-robbery) —        Term which may extend to 30 years

16. Section 399 (Making        —        Term which may extend to 5 years
                                        Term which may extend to 8 years
preparation to commit

gang-robbery)

17. Section 402 (Assembling for —
     purpose of committing
     gang-robbery)

18. Section 403 (Dishonest     —

misappropriation of property)

19. Section 406 (Criminal breach —
     of trust)

20. Section 407 (Criminal breach —
     of trust of property entrusted
     for purposes of transportation
     or storage)

21. Section 408 (Criminal breach —
     of trust by employees)

22. Section 409 (Criminal breach —
     of trust by public servant, or by
     banker, merchant, agent,
     director, officer, partner, key
     executive or fiduciary)

23. Section 417 (Cheating)     —

24. Section 418 (Cheating with —
     knowledge that wrongful loss
     may be thereby caused to a

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
51  Radiation Protection Act 2007                            2020 Ed.

    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

    Offence under Penal Code .           Substituted imprisonment term

    person whose interest the         Term which may extend to 8 years
    offender is bound to protect)     Term which may extend to 15 years
                                      Term which may extend to 15 years.
25. Section 419 (Cheating by —
     personation)

26. Section 420 (Cheating and —
     dishonestly inducing delivery
     of property)

27. Section 468 (Forgery for       —

    purpose of cheating)

                                      [20/2014; 15/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                RADIATION PROTECTION ACT 2007

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                  PART 1
                 RADIATION PROTECTION ACT
           (CHAPTER 262, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

1. Act 20 of 1973 — Radiation Protection Act, 1973

Bill           : 14/1973

First Reading  : 7 March 1973

Second and Third Readings : 20 March 1973

Commencement   : 1 September 1974 (except sections 5
                     and 17)

2. 1985 Revised Edition — Radiation Protection Act (Chapter 262)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

                                  PART 2
                 RADIATION PROTECTION ACT
           (CHAPTER 262, 1992 REVISED EDITION)

3. Act 8 of 1991 — Radiation Protection Act 1991

Bill           : 34/1990

First Reading  : 9 November 1990

Second and Third Readings : 3 January 1991

Commencement   : 1 February 1992

4. 1992 Revised Edition — Radiation Protection Act (Chapter 262)

Operation      : 9 March 1992

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
               ii

5. Act 24 of 1999 — Dentists Act 1999
   (Amendments made by section 69(2) of the above Act)

Bill           : 17/1999

First Reading  : 4 May 1999

Second and Third Readings : 6 July 1999

Commencement   : 15 October 1999 (section 69(2))

6. Act 4 of 2001 — Health Sciences Authority Act 2001
   (Amendments made by section 42 read with item (10) of the Second Schedule
   to the above Act)

Bill           : 3/2001

First Reading  : 12 January 2001

Second and Third Readings : 22 February 2001

Commencement   : 1 April 2001 (section 42 read with
                     item (10) of the Second Schedule)

                                   PART 3
               RADIATION PROTECTION ACT 2007

                      (2020 REVISED EDITION)

7. Act 27 of 2007 — Radiation Protection Act 2007

Bill           : 14/2007

First Reading  : 9 April 2007

Second and Third Readings : 21 May 2007

Commencement   : 1 July 2007

8. 2008 Revised Edition — Radiation Protection Act (Chapter 262)

Operation      : 31 March 2008

9. Act 20 of 2014 — Radiation Protection (Amendment) Act 2014

Bill           : 14/2014

First Reading  : 26 May 2014

Second and Third Readings : 7 July 2014

Commencement   : 21 October 2014 (except sections 3(2)
                     and 9(2) to (5))
                     7 May 2016 (sections 3(2) and 9(2)
                     to (5))

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
                                     iii

10. Act 15 of 2019 — Criminal Law Reform Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 185 of the above Act)

       Bill                          : 6/2019

       First Reading                 : 11 February 2019

       Second Reading                : 6 May 2019

       Notice of Amendments          : 6 May 2019

       Third Reading                 : 6 May 2019

       Commencement                  : 1 January 2020 (section 185)

11. 2020 Revised Edition — Radiation Protection Act 2007

       Operation                     : 31 December 2021

12. Act 17 of 2022 — Extradition (Amendment) Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

       Bill                          : 10/2022

       First Reading                 : 7 March 2022

       Second and Third Readings : 4 April 2022

       Commencement                  : 1 July 2022

                                  Abbreviations

C.P.                  Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.              Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S            Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.                  Legislative Assembly

L.N.                  Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

                      Legislation)

M. Act                Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.                 Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.          Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
         COMPARATIVE TABLE
RADIATION PROTECTION ACT 2007

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    2008 Ed.
3                          2A
4                          3
5                          4
6                          5
7                          6
8                          7
9                          8
10                         9
11                         10
12                         11
13                         12
14                         13
15                         14
16                         15
17                         16
18                         17
19                         18
20                         19
21                         20
22                         21
23                         22
24                         23
25                         24
26                         25

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
                 2020 Ed.  ii     2008 Ed.
27
28                          26
29                          26A
30                          26B
31                          26C
32                          26D
33                          26DA
34                          26DB
35                          26DC
36                          26DD
37                          26E
38                          26F
39                          26G
40                          26H
41                          27
42                          28
43                          29
44                          30
45                          31
46                          32
47                          33
48                          34
49                          35
50                          36
51                          37
52                          38
53                          39
54                          40
                            40A

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
                 2020 Ed.  iii       2008 Ed.
55
56                           41
57                           42
58                           43
59                           44
[Omitted as spent]           45
[Omitted as spent]
[Omitted as spent]              (1)
[Omitted as spent]              (2)
                                (3)
   (1)                          (4)
   (2)                          (5)
                                (6)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
