THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
              SAND AND GRANITE QUARRIES
                               ACT 1970

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                                                                     2020 Ed.

         Sand and Granite Quarries
                   Act 1970

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

     1.  Short title
     2.  Interpretation
     3.  Appointment of Licensing Officer
     4.  Prohibition on quarrying without licence
     5.  Licences to be discretionary
     6.  Security for due performance of obligations of licensees
     7.  Power to execute works
     8.  Conditions under which licences may be granted
     9.  Interference with bank of any river, stream or watercourse
   10.   Effluent water to be free from mud
   11.   Disposal of waste matter
   12.   Excavation by direct action of water
   13.   Safety measures
   14.   Fencing of sand and granite quarries
   15.   Power to enter upon premises for purposes of Act
   16.   Penalty for obstructing officer in his duty
   17.   Default in compliance with notice, etc.
   18.   Penalty for offences not otherwise provided for
   19.   Attempts and abetments
   20.   Liability of licensee for act of agent or servant
   21.   Saving of prosecutions under other laws
   22.   Costs and expenses to be determined by Magistrate’s Court
   23.   Exemption
   24.   Regulations

An Act for the licensing and control of sand and granite quarries and
  for matters incidental thereto.

                                                         [15 December 1971]

                                                  1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
             Sand and Granite Quarries

2020 Ed.     Act 1970                                              2

Short title

1. This Act is the Sand and Granite Quarries Act 1970.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act —

      “granite quarry” means any land from which granite blocks,
         gravel, stones and overburden are extracted by blasting,
         sorting, breaking, loading and transporting, whether the
         processes are executed by manual labour or mechanical
         means;

      “licence” means a licence granted under section 5;

      “licensee” means any person to whom a licence to use or manage
         any land for the purposes of a sand or granite quarry has been
         granted under section 5;

      “Licensing Officer” means the officer appointed by the Minister
         under section 3(1);

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

      “sand quarry” means any land on which persons are employed in
         manual labour in any process for or incidental to the getting,
         dressing or preparation for the sale or otherwise of sand,
         gravel or earth.

Appointment of Licensing Officer

 3.—(1) The Minister may appoint an officer to be the Licensing
Officer for the purposes of this Act.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (2) An appointment under subsection (1) must be published in the
Gazette.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

Prohibition on quarrying without licence

 4.—(1) No person shall, on or after 15 December 1971, use or
manage any land for the purposes of a sand or granite quarry without
a licence from the Licensing Officer authorising him to do so.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
   Sand and Granite Quarries

3  Act 1970                                                    2020 Ed.

 (2) Any person who uses or manages any land for the purposes of a
sand or granite quarry without a licence shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 and,
in the case of a continuing offence, to a fine not exceeding $100 for
every day or part thereof during which the offence continues after
conviction.

   (3) In any prosecution for an offence under this section —

   (a) the existence in or on any land of any apparatus or
        accessories for the getting, dressing or preparation for the
        sale or otherwise of sand shall be prima facie evidence that
        the person owning or having the control of such apparatus
        or accessories has been using or managing the land for the
        purposes of a sand quarry; and

   (b) the existence in or on any land of any mechanical
        equipment or other like thing used for the purpose of
        extracting granite blocks, gravel, stones and overburden by
        blasting, sorting, breaking, loading and transporting shall
        be prima facie evidence that the person owning or having
        the control of that mechanical equipment or other like thing
        has been using or managing the land for the purposes of a
        granite quarry.

Licences to be discretionary

 5.—(1) The Licensing Officer may at his discretion grant, renew or
refuse any licence in pursuance of this Act or any regulations made
thereunder.

 (2) Licences in pursuance of this Act or any regulations made
thereunder may be granted, renewed or refused without any reason
for such grant, renewal or refusal being assigned therefor and may be
granted or renewed subject to such restrictions and conditions as the
Licensing Officer may think fit and shall be subject to suspension or
revocation at any time without compensation and without notice by
the Licensing Officer upon breach of any restriction or condition
subject to which it was granted.

 (3) The Licensing Officer may require any applicant for a licence to
furnish such information as the Licensing Officer may reasonably

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Sand and Granite Quarries

2020 Ed.  Act 1970                                                 4

require for a full and proper consideration of the application and, in
the event of refusal to furnish such information, shall refuse to grant
or renew the licence.

 (4) Except as otherwise expressly provided in the licence, any
licence granted or renewed in pursuance of this Act or any regulations
made thereunder may be for such period not exceeding 12 months as
the Licensing Officer thinks fit.

 (5) There shall be charged for the grant or renewal of any licence
such fee as the Minister may, from time to time by regulations,
prescribe.

 (6) No such licence shall be transferable without the consent of the
Licensing Officer.

 (7) No licence for carrying on any granite quarry shall be granted
unless the applicant for the licence deposits with the Licensing
Officer a certified site plan from the Chief Surveyor indicating the
location of the granite quarry.

 (8) Any person aggrieved by the refusal by the Licensing Officer to
grant or renew any licence or by the suspension or revocation by the
Licensing Officer of any licence may within one month of the refusal,
suspension or revocation appeal to the Minister whose decision shall
be final.

Security for due performance of obligations of licensees

 6. The Licensing Officer may, as a condition of the grant of a
licence in respect of any sand or granite quarry, require such security
as he thinks fit to be deposited with the Licensing Officer for the due
performance by the licensee of all or any obligations imposed upon
him by the licence or by this Act or any regulations made thereunder.

Power to execute works

 7.—(1) If a licensee fails to execute any work or works which he is
required by his licence or by this Act or any regulations made
thereunder to execute for the purpose of preventing any nuisance or
danger to life or property, the Licensing Officer may, by notice in
writing, require him to execute the work or works within such time as
may be specified in the notice.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
   Sand and Granite Quarries

5  Act 1970                                                 2020 Ed.

 (2) If the licensee fails to comply with the requirements of such
notice, the Licensing Officer may, at any time after the expiration of
the time specified in the notice and without instituting any
proceedings against the licensee, cause the work or works to be
executed and the expenses incurred thereby shall be paid by the
licensee and may be recovered by the Licensing Officer —

   (a) by deducting the amount due from any sum deposited by
        the licensee as security under section 6; or

   (b) in the manner provided in section 22.

Conditions under which licences may be granted

 8. No licence shall be granted unless the Licensing Officer is
satisfied that the use of the premises as a sand or granite quarry will
be unlikely —

       (a) to cause any nuisance or damage to occupants of adjoining
            or neighbouring land or buildings;

       (b) to cause depreciation in the value or amenity of adjoining
            or neighbouring land or buildings; or

       (c) to be dangerous to health, life or property.

Interference with bank of any river, stream or watercourse

 9.—(1) Any licensee who in the course of sand and granite
quarrying operations interferes in any way with the bank of any river,
stream or watercourse may be required by the Licensing Officer, by
notice in writing, to restore the bank to the same condition as it was in
before the interference or to remake it in such manner and within such
time as may be specified in the notice.

 (2) Any licensee who fails to comply with the requirements of such
a notice shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $1,000 and, in the case of a continuing
offence, to a fine not exceeding $50 for every day or part thereof
during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (3) The Licensing Officer may, at any time after the expiration of
the time specified in such notice and without instituting any
proceedings against the licensee, cause the works specified in the

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Sand and Granite Quarries

2020 Ed.  Act 1970                                                 6

notice to be executed and the expenses thereby incurred shall be paid
by the licensee in default and may be recovered by the Licensing
Officer —

(a) by deducting the amount due from any sum deposited by
     the licensee as security under section 6; or

(b) in the manner provided in section 22.

Effluent water to be free from mud

 10.—(1) Every licensee shall only use fresh water in connection
with his sand quarrying operations and shall make such provision or
take such steps as will ensure that all the water, before it leaves the
sand quarrying area on which it has been so used, is freed from any
mud, sand, silt or any other refuse of the sand quarry which is likely to
interfere with the natural flow of water in any river, stream, channel
or watercourse.

 (2) The Licensing Officer may, by notice in writing, require any
licensee to provide such spillways, retaining walls, brush dams,
settling pits and other mechanical appliances or devices as the
Licensing Officer may consider necessary for effectual compliance
with subsection (1) and may also order the licensee to suspend his
sand quarrying operations until such provision has been made.

 (3) The compliance of the licensee with a notice or order made
under subsection (2) shall not affect any liability incurred by any
licensee through breach of subsection (1).

Disposal of waste matter

 11.—(1) The Licensing Officer may give such directions in writing
as he may consider necessary for the disposal of all earth, sludge, dirt,
sand, silt or other waste matter from any sand or granite quarry.

 (2) The Licensing Officer may, by notice in writing, require any
licensee to take such precautions and to construct and maintain such
drains, spillways, channels and other works as may in his opinion be
necessary to ensure that earth, sludge, dirt, sand, silt or other waste
matter from any sand or granite quarry will not be carried or washed
away by storm water or by fresh water used for the purpose of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
   Sand and Granite Quarries

7  Act 1970                                                 2020 Ed.

working the sand or granite quarry to any place not being a place
where the same may lawfully be deposited.

Excavation by direct action of water

 12. No licensee shall without the written permission of the
Licensing Officer use any method of removing or excavating sand
by the direct action of fresh water.

Safety measures

 13.—(1) The licensee of any sand or granite quarry shall —

       (a) in the case of a sand quarry in which any open pit exits,
            erect and thereafter maintain such fencing and take such
            other precautions as may be necessary in the opinion of the
            Licensing Officer to prevent the occurrence of any danger
            or damage to life or property; and

       (b) in the case of a granite quarry —

               (i) provide such number of guards, watchmen, warning
                   lamps and red flags at such places and times as the
                   Licensing Officer thinks fit;

              (ii) not permit any deposit, material, machinery or any
                   other object or thing to be scattered, dumped, placed
                   or stationed at any place so as to hinder or obstruct
                   access to and egress from the land adjoining or
                   abutting any such quarry; and

             (iii) maintain the roads leading to any such quarry and
                   crusher plant up to a standard approved by the
                   Licensing Officer.

 (2) The Licensing Officer may give a licensee such directions as he
thinks fit as to the method of quarrying and the suspension or
prohibition of granite quarrying operations including blasting to
ensure safety to persons or property.

Fencing of sand and granite quarries

 14. Where any disused sand or granite quarry is dangerous to the
public, it shall be kept reasonably fenced for the prevention of

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Sand and Granite Quarries

2020 Ed.  Act 1970                                                 8

accidents, and if it is not so kept, the licensee of the sand or granite
quarry or if there is no such licensee the owner of the land in which
the sand or granite quarry lies shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000 and, in the case
of a continuing offence, to a fine not exceeding $50 for every day or
part thereof during which the offence continues after conviction.

Power to enter upon premises for purposes of Act

 15. The Licensing Officer or any officer or employee duly
authorised by the Licensing Officer in writing in that behalf may
enter any premises which are used or which the officer or employee
has reasonable cause to believe are to be used as a sand or granite
quarry for the purpose of making any survey or inspection or of
executing any work authorised by this Act to be executed by him
without being liable to any legal proceedings or molestation
whatsoever on account of such entry or of anything done in any
part of those premises in pursuance of this Act.

Penalty for obstructing officer in his duty

 16. Any person who at any time hinders, obstructs or molests the
Licensing Officer or any officer or employee authorised by the
Licensing Officer in writing in that behalf in the performance and
execution of his duty or of anything which he is empowered or
required to do by virtue or in consequence of this Act, or removes any
mark set up for the purpose of indicating any level or direction
necessary to the execution of works authorised by this Act, shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one
year.

Default in compliance with notice, etc.

 17.—(1) When any notice, order or direction under this Act or any
regulations made thereunder requires any act to be done or work to be
executed by the owner or licensee of any sand or granite quarry and
default is made in complying with the requirement of that notice,
order or direction, as the case may be, the person in default shall,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
   Sand and Granite Quarries

9  Act 1970                                                 2020 Ed.

where no fine is specially provided for such default, be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

 (2) When any such notice requires any act to be done or work to be
executed for which no time is fixed by this Act or any regulations
made thereunder, the notice shall state a reasonable time for
compliance with the requirement.

Penalty for offences not otherwise provided for

 18. Every omission or neglect to comply with and every act done or
attempted to be done contrary to the provisions of this Act or any
breach of the conditions or restrictions subject to which or upon
which any licence is granted under this Act shall be an offence under
this Act and in respect of any such offence for which no penalty is
expressly provided the offender shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $1,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
fine not exceeding $50 for every day or part thereof during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Attempts and abetments

 19. Any person who attempts to commit any offence punishable
under this Act or abets the commission of such an offence shall be
punished with the punishment provided for that offence.

Liability of licensee for act of agent or servant

 20.—(1) Whenever a licensee would be liable under the provisions
of this Act or of any regulations made thereunder to any pecuniary
penalty or forfeiture for any act, omission, neglect or default, he shall
be liable to the same pecuniary penalty or forfeiture for every similar
act, omission, neglect or default of any agent or servant employed by
him in the course of his business as such licensee.

 (2) Every person who appears to be employed in any sand or granite
quarry licensed under this Act shall, for the purposes of this section,
be deemed to be a servant of the licensee thereof.

 (3) Nothing in this section shall be construed as relieving any such
agent or servant from any penalty or forfeiture to which he would
otherwise be liable.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Sand and Granite Quarries

2020 Ed.  Act 1970                                                 10

Saving of prosecutions under other laws

 21. Nothing in this Act shall prevent any person from being
prosecuted under any other law for any act or omission which
constitutes an offence under this Act or any regulations made
thereunder or from being liable under that other law to any other or
higher punishment or penalty than that provided by this Act or
regulations made thereunder:

      Provided that no person shall be punished twice for the same
offence.

Costs and expenses to be determined by Magistrate’s Court

 22.—(1) Except as herein otherwise provided, in all cases where
costs or expenses are by this Act directed to be paid, the amount and
any question of liability shall, in the case of dispute or failure to pay,
be summarily ascertained and determined by a Magistrate’s Court.

 (2) If the amount of costs or expenses is not paid by the person
liable to pay it within 7 days after demand, the amount may be
reported to a Magistrate’s Court and recovered in the same way as if it
were a fine imposed by a Magistrate’s Court.

 (3) An appeal shall lie to the General Division of the High Court
from any decision of a Magistrate’s Court under this section, and the
provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply to all such appeals.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Exemption

 23. The Minister may by order exempt any sand or granite quarry
from all or any of the provisions of this Act.

Regulations

 24.—(1) The Minister may make such regulations as he may
consider expedient for the purposes of this Act.

 (2) All regulations made under this Act shall be published in the
Gazette and shall be presented to Parliament as soon as possible after
publication.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                  SAND AND GRANITE QUARRIES

                                   ACT 1970

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                   PART 1
               SAND QUARRIES ORDINANCE, 1961

                      (ORDINANCE 33 OF 1961)

1. Ordinance 33 of 1961 — Sand Quarries Ordinance, 1961

Bill           : 154/1961

First Reading  : 20 November 1961

Second and Third Readings : 16 December 1961

Commencement   : 5 December 1962

                               PART 2
      SAND AND GRANITE QUARRIES ACT 1970

                  (2020 REVISED EDITION)

2. Act 44 of 1970 — Sand and Granite Quarries Act, 1970

Bill           : 37/1970

First Reading  : 2 September 1970

Second and Third Readings : 4 November 1970

Commencement   : 15 December 1971

Note: This Act was brought into force after it was revised in the 1970
        Revised Edition.

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                      ii

3. 1985 Revised Edition — Sand and Granite Quarries Act (Chapter 284)

Operation             : 30 March 1987

4. Act 4 of 1999 — Building and Construction Authority Act 1999
   (Amendments made by section 37 read with item (4) of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill                  : 51/1998

First Reading         : 23 November 1998

Second and Third Readings : 20 January 1999

Commencement          : 1 April 1999 (section 37 read with
                            item (4) of the Schedule)

5. 2013 Revised Edition — Sand and Granite Quarries Act (Chapter 284)

Operation             : 31 October 2013

6. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 142 of the Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 142 of the Schedule)

7. 2020 Revised Edition — Sand and Granite Quarries
                                    Act 1970

Operation             : 31 December 2021

8. Act 5 of 2025 — Electronic Gazette and Legislation Act 2025

Bill                  : 47/2024

First Reading         : 11 November 2024

Second and Third Readings : 7 January 2025

Commencement          : 9 March 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
.                                 iii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
