Western Australia
Geraldton Agricultural and Horticultural Society’s Land Act 1914

Western Australia
Geraldton Agricultural and Horticultural Society’s Land Act 1914
Contents
1.	Short title	1
2.	Power to sell land	1
3.	Previous sales validated	2
	Notes
Compilation table	3


Western Australia
Geraldton Agricultural and Horticultural Society’s Land Act 1914
An Act to enable the Trustees of the Geraldton Agricultural and Horticultural Society to sell Geraldton Suburban Lot B, and to apply the proceeds thereof for the purposes of such Society.
Preamble
Whereas Geraldton Suburban Lot B, being the whole of the land comprised in Certificate of Title, Volume 170, Folio 165, is vested for an estate in fee simple in George Lester and Frederick Thomas Gardner, both of Geraldton, as trustees for the Geraldton Agricultural and Horticultural Society: And whereas the Society is desirous of having the said lands sold and the proceeds thereof applied for the purposes of the said society, and the authority of Parliament is needed to enable this to be done:
Be it enacted by the King’s Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council and Legislative Assembly of Western Australia, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows: —
1.	Short title
		This Act may be cited as the Geraldton Agricultural and Horticultural Society’s Land Act, 1914.
2.	Power to sell land
		It shall be lawful for the said George Lester and Frederick Thomas Gardner, or the survivor of them, or the legal personal representative of the survivor (all of whom are hereinafter included in the expression “the said trustees”) to sell the said land, in such allotments and divisions and in such manner as they shall think expedient, and on production of a transfer from the said trustees to any purchaser of any portion of the said land the Registrar of Titles shall cause such transfer to be duly registered on the title of the said land and shall issue a Certificate of Title to the purchaser for the land comprised in such transfer free from the trusts now affecting such land.
3.	Previous sales validated
		Any sale made by the said trustees before the passing of this Act of any portion of the said land shall be deemed to have been made by the authority of this Act, and shall have effect accordingly.

Notes
1	This is a compilation of the Geraldton Agricultural and Horticultural Society’s Land Act 1914 and includes all amendments effected by the other Acts referred to in the following Table.
Compilation table
Short title
Number and year
Assent
Commencement
Geraldton Agricultural and Horticultural Society’s Land Act 1914
21 of 1914
22 Sep 1914
22 Sep 1914


