THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
          MULTIMODAL TRANSPORT ACT 2021

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                                                                   2020 Ed.

Multimodal Transport Act 2021

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Application of Parts 3 to 6
     2.
     3.

                                       PART 2

                 REGISTRATION UNDER REGISTER OF
             SINGAPORE COMPETENT NATIONAL BODY

4. Registration
5. Renewal of registration certificate
6. Cancellation of registration certificate
7. Minister may designate others to hear appeals
8. Register

                                        PART 3

                 MULTIMODAL TRANSPORT DOCUMENT

 9. Issue of multimodal transport document
10. Contents of multimodal transport document
11. Multimodal transport document as prima facie evidence

                                        PART 4

                       LIABILITIES OF MULTIMODAL
                            TRANSPORT OPERATOR

12. Period of responsibility of multimodal transport operator
13. Multimodal transport operator liable for acts of servants or

         agents
14. Multimodal transport operator to ensure delivery of goods
15. Multimodal transport operator liable for loss resulting from loss

         of or damage to goods, etc.

                                                      1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Multimodal Transport Act 2021                                       2

Section   Assessment of compensation
   16.    Limit on liability of multimodal transport operator
   17.    Liability of multimodal transport operator if no carriage of goods
   18.    by sea, etc.
          Liability to be determined in accordance with other conventions
   19.    or law
          Liability of multimodal transport operator other than for loss of
   20.    or damage to goods
          Aggregate liability of multimodal transport operator
   21.    Aggregate liability of multimodal transport operator and servant,
   22.    agent, etc.
          Multimodal transport operator and servant, agent, etc., not
   23.    entitled to limitation of liability if loss, etc., resulted from
          personal act or omission

                                        PART 5
               DUTIES AND LIABILITIES OF CONSIGNOR
24. Responsibilities of consignor

                                        PART 6

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

25. Handing over of goods prima facie evidence of delivery
26. Time bar
27. Dispute may be referred to arbitration
28. Multimodal transport document void if it departs from

         provisions of Act
29. Rules of general average
30. Act does not affect certain written laws
31. Regulations

An Act to give effect to the ASEAN Framework Agreement on
  Multimodal Transport signed at Vientiane, Lao People’s
  Democratic Republic, on 17 November 2005 and for related
  purposes.

                                                         [28 November 2021]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
3            Multimodal Transport Act 2021                   2020 Ed.

             PART 1

             PRELIMINARY

Short title

   1. This Act is the Multimodal Transport Act 2021.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “ASEAN Framework Agreement on Multimodal Transport”
         means the ASEAN Framework Agreement on Multimodal
         Transport, signed at Vientiane, Lao People’s Democratic
         Republic, on 17 November 2005;

      “ASEAN member country” means a country declared by the
         Minister, by notification in the Gazette, as having ratified or
         acceded to the ASEAN Framework Agreement on
         Multimodal Transport;

      “carrier”, in relation to any goods that are the subject of a
         multimodal transport contract, means a person who performs
         or undertakes to perform the carriage, or part of the carriage,
         of the goods by any mode of transport, whether or not the
         person is the multimodal transport operator of the contract;

      “consignee”, in relation to any goods that are the subject of a
         multimodal transport contract, means the person entitled
         under the multimodal transport contract to receive the goods
         from the multimodal transport operator of the contract;

      “consignor”, in relation to any goods that are the subject of a
         multimodal transport contract, means the person who
         concluded the contract with another person under which
         the other person is to be the multimodal transport operator;

      “deliver”, in relation to any goods that are the subject of a
         multimodal transport contract, means —

              (a) the handing over of the goods to the consignee of the
                   goods;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Multimodal Transport Act 2021                             4

          (b) the placing of the goods at the disposal of the
               consignee of the goods in accordance with the
               multimodal transport contract or with the law or
               usage of the particular trade applicable at the place
               specified in the multimodal transport contract for the
               delivery of the goods; or

          (c) the handing over of the goods to an authority or any
              other party to whom, in accordance with the laws
              applicable at the place specified in the multimodal
              transport contract for the delivery of the goods, the
              goods must be handed over;

“goods” means any property (including any container, pallet or
   similar article of transport or packaging not supplied by a
   multimodal transport operator), whether such property is or is
   to be carried on or under the deck of a conveyance;

“international multimodal transport” means the carriage of
   goods on the basis of a multimodal transport contract by at
   least 2 different modes of transport —

          (a) from a place in a country at which the goods are taken
               in charge by the multimodal transport operator of the
               contract;

          (b) to a place designated for the delivery of the goods
               situated in a different country;

“mandatory law” means any law of Singapore, or any
   international convention forming part of the law of
   Singapore, relating to the carriage of goods, the provisions
   of which cannot be departed from by contractual stipulations
   detrimental to the consignor or consignee;

“mode of transport” means transport by road, rail, inland
   waterways, sea or air;

“multimodal transport contract” means a contract whereby a
   multimodal transport operator undertakes, against payment
   of freight, to perform or to procure the performance of
   international multimodal transport of goods;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
5  Multimodal Transport Act 2021                             2020 Ed.

   “multimodal transport document” means a document which
      evidences —

   (a) a multimodal transport contract for the international
        multimodal transport of any goods;

   (b) the taking in charge of the goods by the multimodal
        transport operator of the contract; and

   (c) an undertaking by the multimodal transport operator
       to deliver the goods in accordance with the terms of
       the contract;

   “multimodal transport operator” means any person who —

   (a) on the person’s own behalf or through another person
        acting on the person’s behalf, concludes a
        multimodal transport contract for the international
        multimodal transport of any goods;

   (b) acts as a principal (and not as an agent of or on behalf
        of the consignor or of any carrier participating in the
        international multimodal transport of the goods);

   (c) assumes responsibility for the performance of the
       multimodal transport contract; and

   (d) is under the register of the Singapore competent
        national body or the competent national body of an
        ASEAN member country;

   “registration certificate” means a document issued by the
      Singapore competent national body certifying that a
      multimodal transport operator is included in the register of
      the Singapore competent national body;

   “Singapore competent national body” means the person or
      authority authorised by the Minister, by notification in the
      Gazette, as the competent national body of Singapore, for the
      purposes of the ASEAN Framework Agreement on
      Multimodal Transport;

   “special drawing right” or “SDR” means the unit of account by
      that name as defined by the International Monetary Fund on
      its official website at https://www.imf.org/;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.     Multimodal Transport Act 2021                          6

“taking in charge”, in relation to any goods that are the subject of
   a multimodal transport contract, means the goods have been
   handed over and accepted for carriage by the multimodal
   transport operator of the contract;

“writing” —

          (a) means a mode of representing or reproducing words,
               figures or symbols in a visible form; and

          (b) includes telegram, telex, fax or any other means
               which prints, records, repeats or transmits messages
               by mechanical or electronic means, or by any other
               kind of instrument or apparatus intended for such
               purposes.

 (2) To avoid doubt, the carriage of goods (or any pick‑up, delivery
or other operations) by only one mode of transport under a contract is
not to be taken as an international multimodal transport of those
goods.

 (3) In this Act, where a container, pallet or similar article of
transport is loaded with more than one package or shipping unit, each
of the packages or shipping units enumerated in a multimodal
transport document as packed in such article of transport is
considered a separate package or shipping unit; otherwise such
article of transport is considered the package or shipping unit.

Application of Parts 3 to 6

 3.—(1) Parts 3 to 6 apply in relation to any civil claim relating to
the carriage of goods that are the subject of a multimodal transport
contract but only if either or both of the following are satisfied:

       (a) the place for the taking in charge of the goods by the
            multimodal transport operator of the contract as specified
            in the contract is located in Singapore or an ASEAN
            member country;

       (b) the place for delivery of the goods by the multimodal
            transport operator of the contract as specified in the
            contract is located in Singapore or an ASEAN member
            country.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
7  Multimodal Transport Act 2021                             2020 Ed.

 (2) Subsection (1) applies to any civil claim whether founded in
contract or tort, and whether made against the multimodal transport
operator, any servant or agent of the multimodal transport operator, or
other person whose services the multimodal transport operator has
used to perform the contract.

                                    PART 2

              REGISTRATION UNDER REGISTER OF
          SINGAPORE COMPETENT NATIONAL BODY

Registration

 4.—(1) A person who desires to be under the register of the
Singapore competent national body must apply to the Singapore
competent national body for a registration certificate under this
section.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) must —

       (a) be made in the form and manner that the Singapore
            competent national body requires;

       (b) be accompanied by the prescribed non‑refundable
            application fee; and

       (c) include such information as may be prescribed.

 (3) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1), the
Singapore competent national body may —

       (a) issue a registration certificate to the person, with or without
            conditions, certifying that the person has been entered in
            the register of the Singapore competent national body; or

       (b) refuse to issue a registration certificate.

 (4) The Singapore competent national body must not issue a
registration certificate to an applicant unless the applicant —

       (a) is carrying on, or intends to carry on, the business of
            international multimodal transport and is —

               (i) a company registered under the Companies
                   Act 1967; or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Multimodal Transport Act 2021                                8

          (ii) a person whose business name is registered under the
               Business Names Registration Act 2014;

(b) has a principal place of business in Singapore;

          (c) has an insurance, a bond, a guarantee, or any other
              financial arrangements acceptable to the Singapore
              competent national body to cover payment (in whole or
              in part) for any claim arising from any loss, damage or
              delay in the delivery of goods under a multimodal transport
              contract, as well as any contractual risk assumed by the
              applicant in relation to the performance of the carriage of
              any goods under a multimodal transport contract;

(d) maintains the prescribed minimum assets, or provides an
     equivalent guarantee acceptable to the Singapore
     competent national body; and

          (e) satisfies such other requirements as may be prescribed.

 (5) A registration certificate issued under subsection (3)(a) is valid
for one year, unless it is earlier cancelled under section 6.

 (6) The Singapore competent national body may at any time add to,
vary or revoke any of the conditions of a registration certificate.

 (7) Where the Singapore competent national body refuses to issue a
registration certificate to an applicant, the Singapore competent
national body must state in writing its reasons for refusal if requested
to do so by the applicant.

 (8) Any applicant who is aggrieved by the refusal of the Singapore
competent national body to issue a registration certificate may, within
14 days of having been informed of the refusal, appeal to the Minister
whose decision is final.

Renewal of registration certificate

 5.—(1) An application for the renewal of a registration certificate
must —

       (a) be made to the Singapore competent national body at least
            3 months before the date the registration certificate
            expires;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
9  Multimodal Transport Act 2021                             2020 Ed.

   (b) be made in the form and manner that the Singapore
        competent national body requires;

   (c) be accompanied by the prescribed non-refundable
       application fee; and

   (d) include such information as may be prescribed.

 (2) If an application to renew a registration certificate is submitted
to the Singapore competent national body less than 3 months before
the registration certificate expires, the application is treated as an
application under section 4.

 (3) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1), the
Singapore competent national body may —

   (a) if the applicant satisfies the requirements mentioned in
        section 4(4), renew the registration certificate, with or
        without conditions, for a further period of one year; or

   (b) refuse to renew the registration certificate.

 (4) The Singapore competent national body may, at any time, add
to, vary or revoke any of the conditions of a registration certificate
renewed under this section or impose new conditions.

 (5) Where the Singapore competent national body refuses to renew
the registration certificate of an applicant, it must state in writing its
reasons for refusal if requested to do so by the applicant.

 (6) Any applicant who is aggrieved by the refusal of the Singapore
competent national body to renew a registration certificate may,
within 14 days of having been informed of the refusal, appeal to the
Minister whose decision is final.

Cancellation of registration certificate

 6.—(1) If the Singapore competent national body is satisfied that
the holder of a registration certificate —

       (a) has, when making an application under section 4 or 5
            relating to the registration certificate, made any statement
            that is incorrect or false in any material particular;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Multimodal Transport Act 2021                             10

(b) has otherwise procured the registration certificate by fraud
     or misrepresentation; or

          (c) is contravening or has contravened any of the conditions of
              the registration certificate,

the Singapore competent national body may, by notice, cancel the
registration certificate.

 (2) Before cancelling the registration certificate, the Singapore
competent national body must give notice to the holder of the
registration certificate —

(a) stating that it intends to cancel the registration certificate;
     and

(b) specifying the time within which written representations
     may be made to it.

 (3) The time specified by the Singapore competent national body in
the notice in subsection (2)(b) must not be less than 28 days after the
date of the notice.

 (4) The Singapore competent national body may, after considering
any written representation made by the holder of the registration
certificate, cancel the registration certificate and notify the holder of
the cancellation.

 (5) The Singapore competent national body must furnish the holder
of the registration certificate with the grounds of cancellation of the
registration certificate if so required by the holder.

 (6) Any holder of a registration certificate who is aggrieved by the
cancellation of the registration certificate may appeal in writing
against the cancellation to the Minister —

(a) within 14 days after being notified of the cancellation; or

(b) if the holder requires (within the period mentioned in
     paragraph (a)) the Singapore competent national body to
     furnish the grounds of cancellation, within 14 days after
     being furnished with the grounds of cancellation,

and the Minister’s decision is final.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
11  Multimodal Transport Act 2021                             2020 Ed.

 (7) A decision of the Singapore competent national body to cancel a
registration certificate takes effect despite an appeal against that
decision being made to the Minister under subsection (6), unless the
Minister otherwise specifies.

Minister may designate others to hear appeals

 7.—(1) The Minister may designate any of the following persons to
hear and determine, in the Minister’s place, any appeal under
section 4, 5 or 6:

       (a) the Second Minister for his or her Ministry;

       (b) any Minister of State, including a Senior Minister of State,
            for his or her Ministry;

       (c) any Parliamentary Secretary, including a Senior
            Parliamentary Secretary, to his or her Ministry.

 (2) A reference to the Minister in section 4, 5 or 6 includes a
reference to a person designated under subsection (1).

Register

 8. The Singapore competent national body must keep and maintain
a register containing —

       (a) the name of each person who is issued with a registration
            certificate under section 4, or whose registration certificate
            is renewed under section 5; and

       (b) any other particulars determined by the Singapore
            competent national body.

                                    PART 3

             MULTIMODAL TRANSPORT DOCUMENT

Issue of multimodal transport document

 9.—(1) When goods are taken in charge in Singapore by a
multimodal transport operator pursuant to a multimodal transport
contract, the multimodal transport operator must issue to the
consignor of the goods a multimodal transport document.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Multimodal Transport Act 2021                             12

 (2) The multimodal transport document must, at the option of the
consignor of the goods, either be in negotiable or non‑negotiable
form.

 (3) The multimodal transport document must be signed by the
multimodal transport operator or by a person authorised by the
multimodal transport operator.

 (4) A multimodal transport document issued to bearer is negotiable
by delivery.

 (5) A multimodal transport document issued to order is negotiable
by the endorsement of the holder completed by delivery.

 (6) A consignee of goods that are the subject of a multimodal
transport contract as evidenced by a multimodal transport document
has and is vested with all rights of action and is subject to all liabilities
in respect of those goods as if the consignee were a party to the
contract.

 (7) The rights and liabilities are vested in the consignee under
subsection (6) subject to —

(a) the provisions of this Act; and

(b) the stipulations in the multimodal transport document,

except that the duties and liabilities of the consignor in Part 5 do not
apply to the consignee.

Contents of multimodal transport document

 10.—(1) A multimodal transport document must contain such
particulars as may be prescribed.

 (2) A document is a multimodal transport document despite the
absence of any of the prescribed particulars if there is evidence to
establish that it is a multimodal transport document within the
definition of that term in section 2(1).

Multimodal transport document as prima facie evidence

 11.—(1) A multimodal transport document issued by a multimodal
transport operator is prima facie evidence that the multimodal
transport operator has taken in charge the goods as described in that

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
13  Multimodal Transport Act 2021                             2020 Ed.

document, unless a contrary indication, such as “shipper’s weight,
load and count”, “shipper‑packed container” or a similar expression,
has been made in the printed text of or superimposed on the
document.

 (2) Proof to the contrary is not admissible when the multimodal
transport document has been transferred, or transmitted by electronic
data interchange to the consignee of the goods who —

    (a) has acknowledged the receipt of the document; and

       (b) has in good faith relied on and acted upon the document.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

 (3) In this section, “electronic data interchange” means an
electronic transmission of data from one computer to another
computer, using an internationally recognised standard for secure
electronic transfer of data that is agreed on by the multimodal
transport operator, the consignee of the goods, and any other party
involved in the international multimodal transport of the goods.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

                                    PART 4

                   LIABILITIES OF MULTIMODAL
                        TRANSPORT OPERATOR

Period of responsibility of multimodal transport operator

 12. For the purposes of this Part, the period of responsibility of a
multimodal transport operator of a multimodal transport contract
starts at the time the multimodal transport operator takes in charge the
goods that are the subject of the contract and ends at the time that the
goods are delivered.

Multimodal transport operator liable for acts of servants or
agents

 13.—(1) A multimodal transport operator of a multimodal transport
contract is liable for any act or omission described in subsection (2),
of —

       (a) any servant or agent of the multimodal transport operator,
            when acting within the scope of the servant’s or agent’s

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Multimodal Transport Act 2021                             14

          employment relating to the carriage of the goods that are
          the subject of the contract; and

(b) any other person whose services the multimodal transport
     operator makes use of for the performance of the contract.

(2) The act or omission is one that —

(a) takes place during the period of responsibility of the
     multimodal transport operator; and

(b) causes loss of, damage to, or delay in the delivery of, the
     goods.

Multimodal transport operator to ensure delivery of goods

 14. A multimodal transport operator of a multimodal transport
contract for the international multimodal transport of any goods is
taken to have given an undertaking to the following persons to
perform, or to procure the performance of, all acts necessary to ensure
the delivery of the goods:

       (a) where the multimodal transport document relating to the
            contract is issued in a negotiable form to bearer — to the
            person who surrenders to the multimodal transport
            operator one original of the document;

       (b) where the multimodal transport document relating to the
            contract is issued in a negotiable form to order — to the
            person who surrenders to the multimodal transport
            operator one original of the document duly endorsed;

       (c) where the multimodal transport document relating to the
            contract is issued in a negotiable form to a named
            person — to the person (upon proof of the person’s
            identity) who surrenders to the multimodal transport
            operator one original of the document;

       (d) where the multimodal transport document relating to the
            contract is issued in a negotiable form to a named person
            and has been transferred to order or in blank — to the
            person if that person surrenders to the multimodal transport
            operator one original of the document duly endorsed;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
15  Multimodal Transport Act 2021                             2020 Ed.

    (e) where the multimodal transport document relating to the
        contract is issued in a non-negotiable form — to the person
        named as the consignee of the goods in the document upon
        proof of the person’s identity;

    (f) where no document is issued — to a person as instructed by
        the consignor of the goods or by a person who has acquired
        the consignor’s or consignee’s rights under the multimodal
        transport contract to give such instructions.

Multimodal transport operator liable for loss resulting from
loss of or damage to goods, etc.

 15.—(1) Subject to subsections (2), (3) and (4), a multimodal
transport operator of a multimodal transport contract is liable for loss
resulting from the loss of, damage to, or delay in the delivery of, any
goods that are the subject of the contract if the occurrence which
caused the loss, damage or delay took place during the period of
responsibility of the multimodal transport operator.

 (2) The multimodal transport operator is not liable under
subsection (1) if the multimodal transport operator proves that —

       (a) the multimodal transport operator, or the servant or agent
            or other person for whose act or omission the multimodal
            transport operator is liable under section 13, took all
            reasonable measures to avoid the occurrence and the loss,
            damage or delay; or

       (b) the occurrence which caused such loss, damage or delay is
            the result of one or more of the following:

               (i) force majeure;

              (ii) any act or neglect of the consignor or consignee, or
                   the consignor’s or consignee’s representative or
                   agent;

             (iii) insufficient or defective packaging, marking or
                   numbering of the goods;

             (iv) the handling, loading, unloading or stowage of the
                   goods that is effected by the consignor or consignee,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Multimodal Transport Act 2021                             16

          or the consignor’s or consignee’s representative or
          agent;

          (v) any inherent or latent defect in the goods;

          (vi) any strike, lockout or stoppage or restraint of labour
               from whatever cause, whether partial or general;

          (vii) where the goods are carried by sea or inland
                waterways —

          (A) any act, neglect or default of the master,
               mariner, pilot or the servant of the carrier of
               the goods in the navigation or in the
               management of the ship; or

          (B) any fire unless caused by the actual fault or
               privity of the carrier of the goods.

 (3) The multimodal transport operator is not liable under
subsection (1) for loss resulting from delay in the delivery of the
goods unless the consignor has made a declaration of interest in
timely delivery which has been accepted by the multimodal transport
operator.

 (4) If any loss of or damage to the goods is the result of the
unseaworthiness of the ship in which the goods are carried, the
multimodal transport operator is not liable under subsection (1) if the
multimodal transport operator proves that due diligence has been
exercised to make the ship seaworthy at the commencement of the
voyage.

 (5) For the purpose of this Part, delay in delivery occurs when the
goods have not been delivered within the time expressly agreed upon
by the parties to the multimodal transport contract or, in the absence
of such agreement, within the time which it would be reasonable for a
diligent multimodal transport operator to deliver the goods, having
regard to the circumstances of the case.

 (6) If the goods have not been delivered within 90 consecutive days
after the date determined in accordance with subsection (5), any
person entitled to claim the goods may, in the absence of evidence to
the contrary, treat the goods as lost.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
17  Multimodal Transport Act 2021                             2020 Ed.

Assessment of compensation

 16.—(1) An assessment of compensation by a multimodal transport
operator of a multimodal transport contract for the loss of or damage
to the goods that are the subject of the contract, and for which the
multimodal transport operator is liable under section 15, is to be made
by reference to the value of such goods —

    (a) at the place and time that the goods are delivered to the
         consignee of the goods; or

    (b) at the place and time when, in accordance with the
         multimodal transport contract, the goods should have been
         so delivered.

(2) The value of the goods is to be determined according to —

    (a) their current commodity exchange price;

    (b) if there is no current commodity exchange price, their
         current market price; or

    (c) if there is no current commodity exchange price or current
        market price, the normal value of goods of the same kind
        and quality based on other sale transactions relating to the
        goods.

Limit on liability of multimodal transport operator

 17.—(1) Subject to subsection (2) and sections 18, 19, 21 and 22, a
multimodal transport operator of a multimodal transport contract is
not liable under section 15 for any loss of or damage to the goods that
are the subject of the contract, in an amount exceeding the higher of
the following:

       (a) the equivalent of 666.67 SDR per package or shipping unit
            of the goods lost or damaged;

       (b) 2.00 SDR per kilogram of gross weight of the goods lost or
            damaged.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the nature and value of the
goods have been declared by the consignor of the goods before the
goods are taken in charge by the multimodal transport operator, and
inserted in the multimodal transport document.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Multimodal Transport Act 2021                             18

Liability of multimodal transport operator if no carriage of
goods by sea, etc.

 18. If a multimodal transport contract does not provide for the
carriage of goods by sea or inland waterways, the liability of the
multimodal transport operator under section 15 for the loss of or
damage to the goods is limited to an amount not exceeding 8.33 SDR
per kilogram of gross weight of the goods lost or damaged.

Liability to be determined in accordance with other
conventions or law

 19. If the loss of or damage to the goods that are the subject of a
multimodal transport contract occurred during a particular stage of
the international multimodal transport of the goods, in respect of
which a mandatory law would have provided another limit of liability
if a separate contract of carriage had been made for that particular
stage of transport, then the limit of the multimodal transport
operator’s liability under section 15 for such loss or damage is to
be determined by reference to such mandatory law.

Liability of multimodal transport operator other than for loss
of or damage to goods

 20. Subject to sections 19, 21 and 22, the liability of a multimodal
transport operator of a multimodal transport contract under section 15
for loss resulting from delay in the delivery of the goods that are the
subject of the contract, or any consequential loss or damage (other
than loss of or damage to the goods), is limited to an amount
equivalent to the freight under the contract.

Aggregate liability of multimodal transport operator

 21. The aggregate liability of a multimodal transport operator of a
multimodal transport contract under this Part must not exceed the
limits of liability for the total loss of the goods that are the subject of
the contract calculated in accordance with sections 17 and 18.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
19  Multimodal Transport Act 2021                             2020 Ed.

Aggregate liability of multimodal transport operator and
servant, agent, etc.

22. The aggregate liability of —

    (a) a multimodal transport operator of a multimodal transport
         contract; and

    (b) any servant or agent of the multimodal transport operator,
         or other person whose services the multimodal transport
         operator has used in order to perform the contract,

must not exceed the limits in sections 17 to 21.

Multimodal transport operator and servant, agent, etc., not
entitled to limitation of liability if loss, etc., resulted from
personal act or omission

 23.—(1) The multimodal transport operator is not entitled to the
benefit of the limitation of liability under this Part for the loss of,
damage to, or delay in the delivery of the goods if it is proved that the
loss, damage or delay resulted from an act or omission of the
multimodal transport operator that is done —

       (a) with the intention to cause such loss, damage or delay; or

       (b) recklessly and with knowledge that such loss, damage or
            delay would probably result.

 (2) A servant or an agent of a multimodal transport operator or other
person whose services a multimodal transport operator makes use of
for the carriage of goods is not entitled to the benefit of the limitation
of liability under this Part if it is proved that the loss, damage or delay
resulted from an act or omission of such servant, agent or other person
that is done —

       (a) with the intention to cause such loss, damage or delay; or

       (b) recklessly and with knowledge that such loss, damage or
            delay would probably result.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Multimodal Transport Act 2021                             20

          PART 5

          DUTIES AND LIABILITIES OF CONSIGNOR

Responsibilities of consignor

 24.—(1) The consignor of any goods that are the subject of a
multimodal transport contract is deemed to have guaranteed to the
multimodal transport operator of the contract that, at the time the
goods were taken in charge by the multimodal transport operator, all
of the following particulars specified in the multimodal transport
document are accurate:

(a) the general nature of the goods;

(b) the marks, number, weight, volume and quantity of the
     goods;

          (c) if applicable, the dangerous character of the goods as
              furnished by the consignor or on the consignor’s behalf for
              insertion in the multimodal transport document relating to
              the contract.

 (2) The consignor of any goods that are the subject of a multimodal
transport contract must mark or label dangerous goods in accordance
with any international conventions or laws applicable in the country
in which the goods are taken in charge by the multimodal transport
operator of the contract.

 (3) Where the consignor of any dangerous goods that are the subject
of a multimodal transport contract hands over those goods to the
multimodal transport operator of the contract, or any servant or agent
of the multimodal transport operator, or other person acting on behalf
of the multimodal transport operator, the consignor must inform the
multimodal transport operator, servant, agent or person (as the case
may be) of the dangerous character of the goods and, if necessary, the
precautions to be taken.

 (4) If the consignor fails to so inform the multimodal transport
operator, servant, agent or person, and the multimodal transport
operator does not otherwise have knowledge of the dangerous
character of the goods —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
21  Multimodal Transport Act 2021                             2020 Ed.

    (a) the consignor is liable to the multimodal transport operator
         for any loss incurred by the multimodal transport operator
         in the course of the shipment of such goods and that is
         related to the dangerous character of the goods; and

    (b) despite section 15, the goods may at any time during the
         international multimodal transport be unloaded, destroyed
         or rendered innocuous, as the circumstances may require,
         without payment of compensation to the consignor or any
         person to whom the multimodal transport operator is taken
         to have given an undertaking under section 14.

 (5) Subsection (4) does not apply if, during the international
multimodal transport of the goods, the multimodal transport operator
has taken in charge the goods with knowledge of the dangerous
character of the goods.

 (6) If, in a case where subsection (4)(b) does not apply, the
dangerous goods become an actual danger to life or property, they
may (despite section 15) be unloaded, destroyed or rendered
innocuous at any time during the international multimodal
transport, as the circumstances may require, without payment of
compensation to the consignor or any person to whom the multimodal
transport operator is taken to have given an undertaking under
section 14, except where —

    (a) there is an obligation on the multimodal transport operator
         to contribute in general average; or

    (b) the multimodal transport operator or the servant, agent or
         person for whose act or omission the multimodal transport
         operator is liable under section 13, failed to take all
         reasonable measures to prevent the dangerous goods
         becoming an actual danger.

 (7) The consignor of any goods that are the subject of a multimodal
transport contract must indemnify the multimodal transport operator
of the contract against any loss incurred by the multimodal transport
operator resulting from any inadequacy or inaccuracy of any
particulars or information provided by the consignor under
subsection (1), (2) or (3), as the case may be.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Multimodal Transport Act 2021                             22

 (8) The consignor of any goods that are the subject of a multimodal
transport contract remains liable to indemnify the multimodal
transport operator of the contract under subsection (7) even if the
multimodal transport document relating to the contract has been
transferred by the consignor.

 (9) The right of the multimodal transport operator of a multimodal
transport contract to indemnity under subsection (7) does not limit the
multimodal transport operator’s liability under the multimodal
transport contract to any person other than the consignor of the goods.

                                    PART 6

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Handing over of goods prima facie evidence of delivery

 25.—(1) Unless written notice of loss of or damage to any goods
that are the subject of a multimodal transport contract, specifying the
general nature of such loss or damage, is given by the consignee of
the goods to the multimodal transport operator of the contract when
the goods were handed over to the consignee, such handing‑over is
prima facie evidence of the delivery by the multimodal transport
operator of the goods as described in the multimodal transport
document relating to the contract.

 (2) Where the loss of or damage to the goods is not apparent,
subsection (1) applies if the notice in that subsection is not given
within 6 consecutive days after the day when the goods were handed
over to the consignee of the goods.

Time bar

 26. Unless otherwise expressly agreed by the parties to a
multimodal transport contract, no action in a court or arbitral
proceedings relating to the international multimodal transport of any
goods that are the subject of the contract may be brought unless the
action or proceedings is or are instituted —

       (a) within a period of 9 months after the delivery of the goods
            that are the subject of the contract; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
23  Multimodal Transport Act 2021                             2020 Ed.

    (b) if the goods have not been delivered, within a period of
         9 months —

    (i) after the date on which the goods should have been
        delivered; or

    (ii) after the date on which, in accordance with
         section 15(6), failure to deliver the goods would
         give the consignee of the goods the right to treat the
         goods as lost.

Dispute may be referred to arbitration

 27.—(1) Any dispute relating to the international multimodal
transport of any goods is capable of settlement by arbitration in
Singapore between parties to the multimodal transport contract
relating to the goods but only if —

       (a) the principal place of business of the respondent or, in the
            absence of such a place, the habitual residence of the
            respondent is in Singapore;

       (b) the place where the multimodal transport contract was
            made is in Singapore, but only if the respondent has in
            Singapore a place of business, branch or an agency through
            which the contract was made;

       (c) the place the multimodal transport operator takes in charge
            the goods, or the place of delivery of the goods, is in
            Singapore; or

       (d) Singapore is the designated place for arbitration in the
            arbitration clause of the contract or in an arbitration
            agreement between the parties.

 (2) The arbitrator, or arbitration tribunal, in Singapore is to apply
the provisions of this Act for any arbitration instituted in Singapore
pursuant to subsection (1).

Multimodal transport document void if it departs from
provisions of Act

 28.—(1) Any stipulation in a multimodal transport document
relating to any goods is void and of no effect to the extent —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Multimodal Transport Act 2021                             24

(a) it is inconsistent with the provisions of this Act; and

(b) it is prejudicial to the consignor or consignee of the goods.

 (2) To avoid doubt, subsection (1) does not affect any other
stipulations contained in the multimodal transport document.

 (3) Subsection (1) does not prevent the parties to a multimodal
transport contract from agreeing that the multimodal transport
operator of the contract should bear a greater liability than that
imposed on the multimodal transport operator under this Act.

Rules of general average
 29. Nothing in this Act prevents the application of any rules

pertaining to general average adjustment —
       (a) contained in a multimodal transport contract; or
       (b) under any law,

to the extent they are applicable.

Act does not affect certain written laws

 30.—(1) This Act does not affect any rights or obligations of a
multimodal transport operator, carrier, consignor or consignee
provided under —

       (a) any written law implementing any treaty, convention or
            other international agreement or arrangement to which
            Singapore is a party; or

       (b) any other written law,

for the protection of human health, public safety and the environment.

 (2) This Act also does not affect any written law that implements
any treaty, convention or other international agreement or
arrangement that is applicable to a multimodal transport contract or
any part of a multimodal transport contract.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
25           Multimodal Transport Act 2021                    2020 Ed.

Regulations

 31. The Minister may make regulations necessary or convenient for
carrying out or giving effect to this Act, and for prescribing anything
which under this Act is to be or may be prescribed.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
      MULTIMODAL TRANSPORT ACT 2021

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 2 of 2021 — Multimodal Transport Act 2021

Bill           : 42/2020

First Reading  : 2 November 2020

Second and Third Readings : 5 January 2021

Commencement   : 28 November 2021

2. 2020 Revised Edition — Multimodal Transport Act 2021

Operation      : 31 December 2021

3. Act 17 of 2025 — Transport Sector (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act
                           2025

Bill           : 12/2025

First Reading  : 26 September 2025

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 2025

Commencement   : 23 September 2026

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
.                                 ii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
