THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
            DENTAL REGISTRATION ACT 1999

                                            2022 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 15 August 2022 and comes into operation on 15 September 2022.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
                                                             2022 Ed.

Dental Registration Act 1999

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                        PART 2

                       SINGAPORE DENTAL COUNCIL

 3. Establishment of Singapore Dental Council
 4. Functions of Council
 5. Compulsory voting
 6. President of Council
 7. Disqualifications for membership of Council
 8. Filling of vacancies
 9. Meetings and quorum of Council
10. Appointment of executive secretary and other employees
11. Appointment of committees

                                        PART 3

                               DENTAL REGISTERS

                                Division 1 — General

12. Registrar
13. Registers

                      Division 2 — Registration of dentists

14. Full registration
14A. Conditional registration
14B. Temporary registration
14C. Registration of specialists
15. Application for registration
16. Certificate of registration

                        1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                                     2

Section   Practising certificate
          Certificate of Registrar in relation to dentists
   17.    Correction of appropriate register
   18.    Removal of name from appropriate register
   19.
   20.

          Division 3 — Registration of oral health therapists

21. Persons entitled to be registered as oral health therapists
22. Application for registration as oral health therapist
23. Oral Health Therapists Accreditation Committee
24. Certificate of registration of oral health therapist
25. Practising certificate of oral health therapist
26. Certificate of Registrar in relation to oral health therapists
27. Correction of Register of Oral Health Therapists
28. Removal of name from Register of Oral Health Therapists

                                        PART 4

                           PRACTICE OF DENTISTRY

29. Prohibition of practice of dentistry
30. Liability of employer, etc., for practice of dentistry in

         contravention of section 29
31. Liability of registered dentist or registered oral health therapist

         for allowing another to act in contravention of section 29, etc.
32. Suspended persons not to practise dentistry during period of

         suspension
33. Pretending to be or taking or using the name or title of dentist,

         etc.
34. Fraudulent registration, etc.
35. General penalty
36. Recovery of fees
37. Evidence of qualification and entry of additional qualifications
38. Use of qualification and title
39. False assumption of title of specialist
40. Certain registered dentists not to perform prescribed procedures

                                       PART 4A
           DENTAL SPECIALISTS ACCREDITATION BOARD

41. Establishment of Dental Specialists Accreditation Board
42. Functions of Accreditation Board

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
3        Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

         PART 5

         DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS AND HEALTH
                       COMMITTEE INQUIRIES

         Division 1 — Complaints Committee

Section  Appointment of Complaints Panel
   43.   Complaints against registered dentists and registered oral health
   44.   therapists
         Inquiry by Complaints Committee
   45.   Findings of Complaints Committee
   46.

         Division 2 — Disciplinary Committee

   47. Appointment of Disciplinary Committee
   48. Proceedings of Disciplinary Committee
   49. Reference and transfer of cases to Health Committee
   50. Findings of Disciplinary Committee
   51. Orders of Disciplinary Committee
   52. Restoration of names to appropriate register
   53. Report of breach

         Division 3 — Health Committee

   54. Health Committee
   55. Unfitness to practise through illness, etc.
   56. Restoration of names removed on recommendation of Health

            Committee

         Division 4 — Interim Orders Committee

   57. Interim Orders Committee
   58. Interim orders
   59. Review of interim orders
   60. Interim Orders Committee may revoke, vary or replace interim

            order
   61. Right of hearing
   62. Application to General Division of High Court
   63. Duration of interim orders
   64. Person suspended under interim suspension order not regarded

            as registered
   65. Council may appoint legal counsel

         Division 5 — Miscellaneous provisions

   66. Restoration of names to appropriate register

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                                   4

Section
   67. Recovery of penalties and costs

          PART 6

          GENERAL

68.       Funds of Council, etc.
69.       Fees payable for members of Council and members of
          committees
70.       Inspectors
71.       Assessor to Council
72.       Protection from personal liability
72A.      Service of documents
73.       Exemption in respect of medical practitioners
74.       Exemption in respect of dental training
75.       Exemption
76.       Composition of offences
77.       Jurisdiction of court
78.       Amendment of Schedule
79.       Power of Council to make regulations

                                        PART 7

               SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

80. Persons who are already registered under repealed Act
81. Saving of certificates of registration issued under repealed Act
82. Pending disciplinary proceedings
83. References in other written laws or documents

         The Schedule — List of registrable basic dental qualifications

An Act to establish the Singapore Dental Council, to provide for the
  registration of dentists and oral health therapists and for matters
  connected therewith.

                                                            [15 October 1999]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
5            Dental Registration Act 1999                   2022 Ed.

             PART 1

             PRELIMINARY

Short title

   1. This Act is the Dental Registration Act 1999.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “appropriate register” means any of the registers mentioned in
         section 13(1), as appropriate;

      “Board” means the Health Promotion Board established under
         the Health Promotion Board Act 2001;

      “certificate of registration” means a certificate of registration
         issued under section 16 or 24;

      “Chief Dental Officer” means the Chief Dental Officer of the
         Ministry of Health;

      “Council” means the Singapore Dental Council established
         under section 3(1);

      “Disciplinary Committee” means a Disciplinary Committee
         appointed under section 47;

      “healthcare professional” includes a medical practitioner, a
         dentist, a nurse, a midwife, a pharmacist, a Traditional
         Chinese Medicine practitioner and any other person who is
         licensed to provide any other healthcare services in
         Singapore;

      “Health Committee” means the Health Committee appointed
         under section 54;

      “practice of dentistry” includes —

              (a) the performance of any procedure and the treatment
                   of any disease, deficiency, deformity, malposition or
                   lesion on or of the human teeth or jaws or associated
                   structures, whether intraorally or extraorally;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             6

          (b) the performance of radiographic work in connection
               with the human teeth or jaws or associated structures;

          (c) the administration of an anaesthetic agent in
              connection with any procedure on the human teeth
              or jaws or associated structures;

          (d) the performance of any procedure on, or the giving of
               any treatment, advice or attendance to, any person as
               preparatory to, or for the purpose of or for or in
               connection with, the fitting, inserting, fixing,
               constructing, repairing or renewing of dentures or
               dental appliances; and

          (e) the performance of any such procedure and the giving
              of any such treatment, advice or attendance as is
              usually performed or given by dentists;

“practising certificate” means a practising certificate granted
   under section 17 or 25;

“president” means the president of the Singapore Dental
   Council;

“registered dentist” means a person who is registered as a dentist
   under this Act and includes a person deemed to be a
   registered dentist under section 80(1), and “registered as a
   dentist” and “registration as a dentist” have corresponding
   meanings;

“registered oral health therapist” means a person registered as an
   oral health therapist under section 21;

“Registrar” means the Registrar of the Council;

“repealed Act” means the Dentists Act (Cap. 76, 1985 Revised
   Edition) repealed by this Act;

“Singapore degree” means a degree or diploma in dentistry from
   the University of Singapore or the National University of
   Singapore.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
7  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

   PART 2

   SINGAPORE DENTAL COUNCIL

Establishment of Singapore Dental Council

 3.—(1) A body called the Singapore Dental Council is established,
which is a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common
seal.

   (2) The Council consists of —

   (a) the Chief Dental Officer;

   (b) the Dean of the Faculty of Dentistry of the National
        University of Singapore;

   (c) 3 registered dentists, to be appointed by the Minister,
       whose names appear in the first division of the Register of
       Dentists and who are practising in Singapore;

   (d) one registered dentist, to be appointed by the Minister,
        whose name appears in the second division of the Register
        of Dentists and who is practising in Singapore;

   (e) at least one but not more than 3 registered oral health
       therapists, to be appointed by the Minister, whose names
       appear in the Register of Oral Health Therapists and who
       are practising in Singapore; and

   (f) 5 members to be elected by registered dentists whose
       names appear in the first division of the Register of
       Dentists and who are practising in Singapore.

 (3) Only registered dentists whose names appear in the
first division of the Register of Dentists and who have at least
10 years’ experience in the practice of dentistry may be elected as
members of the Council.

 (4) The members hold office for a term of 3 years and are eligible
for re‑appointment or re‑election.

 (5) The Minister may, at any time, revoke the appointment of any
member appointed under subsection (2)(c), (d) or (e) without giving
any reason.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             8

Functions of Council

4. The functions of the Council are —

(a) to approve or reject applications for registration as a dentist
     or an oral health therapist under this Act or to approve any
     such application subject to such conditions as it may think
     fit;

(b) to issue certificates of registration and practising
     certificates to registered dentists and registered oral
     health therapists;

          (c) to make recommendations to the appropriate authorities on
              the courses of instructions and examinations leading to a
              degree of Bachelor of Dental Surgery in the National
              University of Singapore;

(d) to make recommendations to the appropriate authorities for
     the training and education of registered dentists and
     registered oral health therapists;

          (e) to determine and regulate the conduct and ethics of
              registered dentists and registered oral health therapists;

          (f) to provide administrative services to other statutory boards
              responsible for the regulation of healthcare professionals;
              and

(g) generally to do all such acts, matters and things as are
     necessary to be carried out, or which the Council is
     authorised to carry out, under this Act.

Compulsory voting

 5.—(1) Every fully registered dentist whose name appears in the
first division of the Register of Dentists and who —

       (a) is resident in Singapore; and

       (b) has in force a practising certificate on the day of election of
            candidates as members of the Council mentioned in
            section 3(2)(f),

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
9  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

must vote for the election of such members at such time and in such
manner prescribed.

 (2) Where a fully registered dentist whose name appears in the
first division of the Register of Dentists is required to vote for the
election of the members of the Council under subsection (1) and fails
to do so, that dentist is not entitled to apply for a practising certificate
unless that dentist —

   (a) satisfies the Registrar that he or she had a good and
        sufficient reason for not voting at the election; or

   (b) pays to the Council a penalty as prescribed by the Council.

President of Council

 6.—(1) The Council has a president who is elected by the members
of the Council from among its members.

 (2) The president serves for a term not extending beyond the expiry
of the term for which he or she has been appointed or elected to be a
member of the Council, and is eligible for re‑election.

Disqualifications for membership of Council

 7. A person must not be a member of the Council if —

       (a) the person is not a citizen or a permanent resident of
            Singapore;

       (b) the person is not a registered dentist or registered oral
            health therapist;

       (c) the person is an undischarged bankrupt;

       (d) the person has been convicted in Singapore or elsewhere of
            any offence involving fraud or dishonesty, or implying a
            defect in character which makes the person unfit for his or
            her profession;

       (e) the person has been found guilty in Singapore or elsewhere
            of any improper act or conduct which brings disrepute to
            his or her profession;

        (f) the person has been found guilty in Singapore or elsewhere
            of professional misconduct; or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             10

(g) the person’s fitness to practise dentistry is judged by the
     Health Committee to be impaired by reason of his or her
     physical or mental condition.

Filling of vacancies

 8.—(1) The office of a member of the Council becomes vacant if
the member —

       (a) dies;

       (b) resigns his or her office;

       (c) is incapacitated by physical or mental illness;

       (d) becomes subject to any of the disqualifications specified in
            section 7;

       (e) without any good and sufficient reason, refuses to accept
            an appointment as a member of a Disciplinary Committee
            or the Health Committee; or

        (f) being a member appointed by the Minister under
            section 3(2)(c), (d) or (e), has his or her appointment
            revoked before the expiry of his or her term of office.

 (2) The Council may, with the approval of the Minister, remove
from office any member of the Council who is absent without leave of
the Council from 3 consecutive meetings of —

       (a) the Council; or

       (b) a Disciplinary Committee, or the Health Committee, of
            which he or she is a member.

 (3) Any question as to whether a person has ceased to be a member
of the Council is to be determined by the Minister whose decision is
final.

 (4) If any vacancy arises among the elected members, the Council
must, as soon as practicable, take the necessary action for the election
of a person to fill the vacancy.

 (5) If any vacancy arises among the appointed members, the
Minister may appoint a person to fill the vacancy in the manner in
which the appointment to the vacant office was made.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
11  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

 (6) Any person elected or appointed to fill the vacancy holds office
for the remainder of the term for which the vacating member was
elected or appointed.

 (7) The Council may act despite any vacancy in the membership of
the Council.

 (8) No act done by or by the authority of the Council is invalid in
consequence of any defect that is afterwards discovered in the
appointment or election or qualification of the members or any of
them.

Meetings and quorum of Council

 9.—(1) The Council is to meet at such times and places as the
president may appoint.

 (2) The Registrar may exercise the power of the president
mentioned in subsection (1) in the absence of the president and at
the direction of at least 2 of the members of the Council.

 (3) At any meeting of the Council, 5 members form a quorum.

 (4) The president presides at any meeting of the Council and, in the
president’s absence, any member that the members present may elect
presides at that meeting.

 (5) The member presiding at any meeting of the Council has an
original vote and, in the case of an equality of votes, a casting vote.

Appointment of executive secretary and other employees

 10. The Council may appoint an executive secretary and other
employees on such terms as the Council may determine.

Appointment of committees

 11.—(1) The Council may —

       (a) appoint one or more committees for any general or special
            purpose which, in the opinion of the Council, may be better
            dealt with or managed by a committee; and

       (b) delegate to any committee so appointed, with or without
            restrictions or conditions as it thinks fit, any of the powers

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             12

          or functions which may be exercised or performed by the
          Council.

 (2) The number and term of office of the members of a committee
appointed under this section and the number of those members
necessary to form a quorum are to be fixed by the Council.

 (3) A committee appointed under this section may include persons
who are not members of the Council.

 (4) This section does not apply in relation to a Complaints
Committee, a Disciplinary Committee or the Health Committee.

                                    PART 3

                           DENTAL REGISTERS

                            Division 1 — General

Registrar

 12.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, there is to be a Registrar of
the Council.

 (2) The Chief Dental Officer is to be the Registrar of the Council.

 (3) The Minister may appoint a person to act as Registrar during the
absence from Singapore or incapacity from illness or otherwise of the
Registrar.

Registers

 13.—(1) In addition to duties under the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, the Registrar must maintain and keep the following
registers:

       (a) a register to be called the “Register of Dentists”
            containing —

               (i) in the first division of the register —

                    (A) under Part I, the names of persons registered as
                          fully registered dentists under section 14(1)
                          and (2);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
13  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

    (B) under Part II, the names of persons registered
         as dentists with conditional registration under
         section 14A(1); and

    (C) all the particulars which are transferred to or
         entered in that division under section 40(6)(a)
         of the Dentists (Amendment) Act 2007; and

    (ii) in the second division of the register, all the names,
         addresses, qualifications and other particulars which
         are transferred to or entered in that division under
         section 40(6)(b) of the Dentists (Amendment)
         Act 2007;

    (b) a register to be called the “Register of Temporarily
         Registered Dentists” containing —

    (i) the names of persons registered temporarily as
        dentists under section 14B(1); and

    (ii) all the names, addresses, qualifications and other
         particulars which are transferred to or entered in the
         first division of the register under section 40(6)(c) of
         the Dentists (Amendment) Act 2007;

    (c) a register to be called the “Register of Specialists”
        containing the names of persons registered as specialists
        under section 14C(1);

    (d) a register to be called the “Register of Oral Health
         Therapists” containing —

    (i) under Part I, the names of persons registered as oral
        health therapists under section 21(1); and

            (ii) under Part II, the names of persons registered as oral
                  health therapists under section 21(2).

                                                                                                           [5/2018]

(2) Each register must contain —

    (a) the names and addresses of the persons registered;

    (b) the dates of the registration of the persons;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             14

          (c) the qualifications by virtue of which the persons are so
              registered; and

(d) any other particulars that the Council may determine for
     that register.

(3) The Registrar —

(a) is responsible for the maintenance and custody of the
     registers; and

(b) must publish on the Council’s Internet website a list of the
     names, addresses, qualifications and dates of qualification
     of all dentists and oral health therapists who —

          (i) are registered under this Act; and

          (ii) have in force practising certificates.

 (4) Every person whose name is entered in any of the registers must
inform the Registrar in writing of any change in his or her practice
address or residential address within 28 days of the change, except
that a person who makes a report of a change in his or her residential
address under section 10 of the National Registration Act 1965 is
deemed to have complied with this subsection on the date on which
the person makes the report.

 (5) The Registrar may disclose any information in the registers to
any person prescribed by regulations made under this Act, if such
disclosure is in accordance with the conditions specified in those
regulations.

 (6) Subsection (5) is without prejudice to any other right or duty to
disclose the information under general or written law.

 (7) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (4) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1,000.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
15                 Dental Registration Act 1999              2022 Ed.

    Division 2 — Registration of dentists

Full registration

 14.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any person who holds
a Singapore degree is entitled to be registered as a fully registered
dentist.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), a person, not being a Singapore degree
holder, who holds the qualifications recognised by the Council, and
satisfies the Council that the person has special knowledge and skill
and sufficient experience in any particular branch of dentistry, is to be
registered as a fully registered dentist, if the Council thinks fit so to
direct.

 (3) Despite subsections (1) and (2), the Council may, if it is of the
view that it is not in the public interest for a person mentioned in
either of those subsections to be registered as a fully registered
dentist, direct that the person be registered as a dentist with
conditional registration in the Register of Dentists, and
section 14A(3) to (7) applies accordingly.

Conditional registration

 14A.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any person who —

       (a) holds a degree from a university specified in the Schedule
            or any other degree which is, in the opinion of the Council,
            not lower in standing than a degree specified in that
            Schedule;

       (b) has been selected for employment in Singapore as a dentist
            in any hospital or other institution or dental practice
            approved by the Council; and

       (c) satisfies the Council that the person has the knowledge and
            skill and has acquired the experience which is necessary
            for practice as a dentist,

is to be registered as a dentist with conditional registration in the
Register of Dentists, if the Council thinks fit so to direct.

 (2) The Council may require a person with a degree, other than a
degree specified in the Schedule, to undergo and pass an examination

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             16

conducted or arranged by the Council or by any other person that the
Council may appoint to satisfy itself that the degree is not lower in
standing than a degree specified in the Schedule.

 (3) The conditions of a person’s registration under this section must
be specified in the direction by virtue of which he or she is registered.

 (4) Without affecting the power of the Council to impose
conditions, the direction may specify —

(a) that the person must work for a specified period under the
     supervision of a fully registered dentist approved by the
     Council; and

(b) the particular employment or the descriptions of
     employment for the purposes of which the person is
     registered under this section.

 (5) The Council may cancel the conditional registration of a dentist
if —

(a) the dentist has contravened any condition specified in the
     direction by virtue of which he or she is registered; or

(b) the Council is of the opinion, having regard to the report of
     the dentist supervising him or her (if any) that he or she is
     unable to perform the duties of a dentist satisfactorily.

 (6) A person who is or has been registered with conditional
registration may, after the expiry of the period of supervision
specified under subsection (4)(a), apply to the Council to be
registered as a fully registered dentist.

 (7) If the Council thinks fit so to direct, having regard to the
knowledge and skill shown and the experience acquired by the
applicant, the applicant is to be registered under section 14(1) as a
fully registered dentist.

 (8) On a dentist with conditional registration becoming registered
otherwise than conditionally or on his or her registration being
cancelled under subsection (5), his or her name must be removed
from Part II of the Register of Dentists.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
17  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

Temporary registration

 14B.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any person who has
a degree other than a Singapore degree and —

    (a) who is in Singapore for the purpose of teaching, research or
         postgraduate study in dentistry under any training scheme
         that may be approved by the Council for that purpose;

    (b) who possesses dental knowledge, experience and skill
         which the Council considers to be of international standing
         or are such as to have special value to the people of
         Singapore; or

    (c) who is not otherwise entitled to be registered as a dentist
        under this Act but who, in the opinion of the Council,
        possesses other qualifications which are adequate for the
        purposes of registration under this Act,

may be registered temporarily in such dental capacity and for such
period as the Council may specify.

 (2) Any registration under subsection (1) is for a period not
exceeding 3 years which may be renewed, at the discretion of the
Council, for any further period that the Council thinks fit.

 (3) A person may be registered under subsection (1) subject to such
conditions and restrictions as the Council may impose.

Registration of specialists

 14C.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any person who —

       (a) holds such postgraduate degrees or qualifications;

       (b) has gained such special knowledge of and skill and
            experience in any particular branch of dentistry; or

       (c) has both such postgraduate degrees or qualifications and
            experience,

as the Council may approve, may apply to the Council to be registered
as a specialist in that branch of dentistry.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             18

 (2) A person may be registered under subsection (1) subject to such
conditions or restrictions as the Council may impose.

                                                                                                             [1/2010]

 (3) The Council must not register any person under subsection (1)
as a specialist unless the person has obtained a certificate from the
Dental Specialists Accreditation Board under section 42.

 (4) The Council may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations for all or any of the following purposes:

(a) providing for the registration of specialists in any branch of
     dentistry;

(b) regulating the recording in, removal from and restoration
     to the Register of Specialists of the names, particulars and
     qualifications of persons so registered;

          (c) providing for appeals by dentists against any refusal of the
              Council to register them in the Register of Specialists or to
              restore their names to that Register or against any decision
              of the Council to remove their names from that Register;

(d) prescribing the fees payable in respect of —

          (i) any application for registration as a specialist;

          (ii) any such registration as a specialist;

          (iii) any restoration of names to the Register of
                Specialists; and

          (iv) any appeal.

Application for registration

 15.—(1) Every application for registration must be made in such
form, and must be accompanied by such documents, photographs,
particulars and fees, as may be prescribed by the Council.

 (2) Before registering an applicant, the Council may require the
applicant to submit himself or herself to a medical examination by a
medical practitioner approved by the Council to determine if the
applicant is fit to practise dentistry.

 (3) The medical examination is at the applicant’s own expense.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
19  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), where a person has complied with
subsection (1) and any requirement of the Council mentioned in
subsection (2), the Council must register the person as a dentist.

 (5) The Council may refuse to register any applicant who, in the
opinion of the Council —

    (a) is not a person entitled to be registered as a dentist in
         accordance with section 14, 14A or 14B;

    (b) is not of good reputation and character;

    (c) has had his or her registration as a dentist in any other
        country withdrawn, suspended or cancelled; or

    (d) is unfit to practise dentistry by reason of his or her physical
         or mental condition.

 (6) Where the Council refuses to register an applicant, the Council
must by written notice inform the applicant of that refusal.

 (7) Any person who is aggrieved by any refusal of the Council
under subsection (5) may, within one month of the notice given under
subsection (6), appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (8) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Council may prescribe
different fees for different classes of applicants.

Certificate of registration

 16. Where a person has been registered as a dentist, the Council
must issue to the person a certificate of registration, and the Council
may require that there be affixed to the certificate a photograph of that
person or such other evidence of identity as the Council may direct.

Practising certificate

 17.—(1) Any registered dentist who desires to obtain a practising
certificate must apply to the Council in such form and manner as the
Council may prescribe.

 (2) The application must be accompanied by the prescribed fee.

 (3) A practising certificate is to be granted for a period not
exceeding 2 years from the date of issue of the practising certificate.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             20

 (4) Any application for renewal of a practising certificate must be
made not later than one month before the expiry of the practising
certificate in such form as the Council may require.

 (5) Any registered dentist who applies for a practising certificate
later than one month before the expiry of the practising certificate is
liable to pay to the Council such late application fee as may be
prescribed by the Council.

(6) The Council may —

(a) refuse to grant a practising certificate to a registered
     dentist; or

(b) refuse to renew the practising certificate of a registered
     dentist,

if the registered dentist has contravened any condition that is imposed
by the Council with the approval of the Minister for the purposes of
this section.

 (7) Where a registered dentist has had his or her name removed
from the appropriate register or his or her registration suspended
under any provision of this Act, any practising certificate issued to
him or her is deemed to be cancelled and the registered dentist must
immediately surrender the certificate to the Council.

 (8) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (7) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1,000.

 (9) For the purposes of subsection (5), the Council may prescribe
different late application fees for applications made before, and
applications made after, the expiry of the practising certificates.

Certificate of Registrar in relation to dentists

 18. A certificate purporting to be under the hand of the Registrar —

       (a) to the effect that at any time or during any period specified
            in the certificate any person was or was not a registered
            dentist, or had or did not have in force a practising
            certificate; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
21  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

    (b) as to any entry in the appropriate register, or the removal
         from the appropriate register of any entry,

is, in the absence of proof to the contrary, and without further proof of
the signature appended to the certificate, sufficient evidence of the
matters specified in the certificate.

                                                                               [19

Correction of appropriate register

 19.—(1) The Registrar must —

       (a) insert in the appropriate register any alteration which may
            come to the Registrar’s knowledge in the name or address
            of any registered dentist;

       (b) correct any error in any entry in the appropriate register;

       (c) remove from the appropriate register the name of any
            person —

               (i) whose name is ordered to be removed under any
                   provision of this Act; or

              (ii) who is deceased;

       (d) insert in the appropriate register any alteration in the
            qualifications or additional qualifications of a registered
            dentist; and

       (e) remove from the appropriate register the name of any
            person who has requested and shown sufficient reason for
            his or her name to be removed from that register, unless a
            complaint has been made, or an inquiry has, or
            investigations or proceedings have, commenced under
            Part 5 against that person.

 (2) The Registrar may remove from the appropriate register the
name of any person who has not renewed his or her practising
certificate for a continuous period of at least 5 years.

                                                                               [20

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             22

Removal of name from appropriate register

 20.—(1) Despite the provisions of this Act, the Council may, upon
such evidence as it may require, order the removal from the
appropriate register of the name of a registered dentist under any
of the following circumstances:

(a) if the registered dentist has contravened any condition or
     restriction imposed by the Council as regards his or her
     conditional registration under section 14A;

(b) if the registered dentist has contravened any condition or
     restriction imposed by the Council as regards his or her
     temporary registration under section 14B;

          (c) if the registered dentist, being a registered dentist whose
              name is in the Register of Specialists —

          (i) has had his or her name removed from the first
              division of the Register of Dentists; or

          (ii) has contravened any condition or restriction imposed
               by the Council under section 14C;

(d) if the registered dentist, being a person to whom section 40
     applies, has contravened any regulation made under that
     section;

          (e) if the registered dentist has obtained his or her registration
              fraudulently or by any incorrect statement;

          (f) if the registered dentist’s degree for registration under this
              Act has been withdrawn or cancelled by the authority
              through which it was acquired or by which it was awarded;

(g) if the registered dentist has had his or her registration as a
     dentist in any other country withdrawn, suspended or
     cancelled by the authority which registered him or her;

(h) if the registered dentist has failed to serve the Government
     or such other body or organisation as directed by the
     Government for the period specified in any undertaking
     given by the registered dentist to the Government.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
23  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

 (2) The Council must, before exercising its powers under
subsection (1), notify the registered dentist concerned of its
intention to take such action and must give the registered dentist an
opportunity to submit reasons, within such period as the Council may
determine, why his or her name should not be removed.

 (3) Any person aggrieved by an order under subsection (1) may,
within 30 days of being notified of the order, appeal to the Minister
whose decision is final.

                                                                               [21

          Division 3 — Registration of oral health therapists

Persons entitled to be registered as oral health therapists

 21.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the following persons
may apply to the Council to be registered as an oral health therapist
under Part I of the Register of Oral Health Therapists:

       (a) a person who —

               (i) holds a diploma in dental hygiene and therapy from
                   the Nanyang Polytechnic or any other certificate or
                   diploma which, in the opinion of the Council, is of an
                   equivalent standard and that has been awarded for
                   successfully completing a course of dental training
                   extending over a period of at least 3 years; and

              (ii) after being registered under Part II of the Register of
                   Oral Health Therapists, has obtained at least 5 years
                   of practical experience in the area of oral health
                   therapy while under the supervision of a registered
                   dentist whose name appears in the first division of
                   the Register of Dentists;

       (b) a person who —

               (i) holds —

                    (A) a certificate of dental therapy from the Ministry
                          of Health or the Board or any other certificate
                          or diploma which, in the opinion of the
                          Council, is of an equivalent standard and that

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             24

          has been awarded for successfully completing
          a course of dental training extending over a
          period of at least 3 years; or

          (B) a qualification in dental hygiene that is
               approved by the Council;

          (ii) has sat for and passed such examinations as may be
               prescribed by the Council; and

          (iii) after being registered under Part II of the Register of
                Oral Health Therapists, has obtained at least 5 years
                of practical experience in the area of oral health
                therapy while under the supervision of a registered
                dentist whose name appears in the first division of
                the Register of Dentists.

 (2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the following persons may
apply to the Council to be registered as an oral health therapist under
Part II of the Register of Oral Health Therapists:

(a) a person who holds a diploma in dental hygiene and
     therapy from the Nanyang Polytechnic or any other
     certificate or diploma which, in the opinion of the
     Council, is of an equivalent standard and that has been
     awarded for successfully completing a course of dental
     training extending over a period of at least 3 years;

(b) a person who holds a certificate of dental therapy from the
     Ministry of Health or the Board or any other certificate or
     diploma which, in the opinion of the Council, is of an
     equivalent standard and that has been awarded for
     successfully completing a course of dental training
     extending over a period of at least 3 years;

          (c) a person who holds a qualification in dental hygiene that is
              approved by the Council.

 (3) The registration of any person mentioned in subsection (1) or
(2) may be subject to such conditions as the Council may determine.

 (4) It is a condition of the registration of any person mentioned in
subsection (2) that he or she may only practise dentistry under the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
25  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

supervision of a registered dentist whose name appears in the first
division of the Register of Dentists.

 (5) The Council may require any person mentioned in
subsection (2) to undergo and pass such examinations as may be
prescribed by the Council to satisfy the Council that he or she has the
knowledge and skill and has acquired the experience which is
necessary for practice as a registered oral health therapist.

(6) Subsection (4) does not apply to —

    (a) any person who is in the public service or who is an officer
         of the Board practising dentistry in the course of his or her
         duties in the public service or as an officer of the Board;
         and

    (b) any other person that the Minister may, by order in the
         Gazette, specify.
                                                                         [21A

Application for registration as oral health therapist

 22.—(1) Every application for registration as an oral health
therapist must be made in such form, and must be accompanied by
such document, photograph, particulars and fee, as may be prescribed
by the Council.

 (2) Before registering an applicant, the Council may require the
applicant to submit himself or herself to a medical examination by a
medical practitioner approved by the Council to determine if the
applicant is fit to practise dentistry.

 (3) The medical examination is at the applicant’s own expense.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), where a person has complied with
subsection (1) and any requirement of the Council mentioned in
subsection (2), the Council must register the person as an oral health
therapist.

 (5) The Council may refuse to register any applicant who —

       (a) has had his or her registration as an oral health therapist in
            any other country withdrawn, suspended or cancelled; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             26

(b) in the opinion of the Council —

          (i) is not a person entitled to be registered as an oral
              health therapist under section 21;

          (ii) is not of good reputation and character; or

          (iii) is unfit to practise dentistry by reason of his or her
                physical or mental condition.

 (6) Where the Council refuses to register an applicant, the Council
must by written notice inform the applicant of the refusal.

 (7) Any person who is aggrieved by any refusal of the Council
under subsection (5) may, within one month of the notice given under
subsection (6), appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (8) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Council may prescribe
different fees for different classes of applicants.

                                                                             [21B

Oral Health Therapists Accreditation Committee

 23.—(1) The Council must appoint a committee of persons, called
the Oral Health Therapists Accreditation Committee —

       (a) to determine the qualifications, experience and other
            conditions for registration as oral health therapists under
            this Act;

       (b) to make recommendations to the appropriate authorities on
            the courses of instructions and examinations leading to any
            qualification as oral health therapists under section 21(1)
            and (2);

       (c) to accredit the training programmes to be recognised for
            persons who intend to qualify for registration as oral health
            therapists under this Act; and

       (d) to recommend to the Council programmes for the
            continuing professional education of persons who are
            registered as oral health therapists under this Act.

 (2) The Oral Health Therapists Accreditation Committee consists
of —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
27  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

    (a) the chairperson, who is the Chief Dental Officer;

    (b) one member of the academic staff of the dental hygiene and
         therapy course offered by the Nanyang Polytechnic;

    (c) not more than 2 dentists whose names appear in the
        first division of the Register of Dentists; and

    (d) not less than 3 and not more than 5 registered oral health
         therapists, one of whom must be a member of the Council.

 (3) The members of the Oral Health Therapists Accreditation
Committee mentioned in subsection (2)(c) and (d) must be appointed
for a term not exceeding 3 years each but may be re‑appointed and
may at any time be removed from office by the Council.

 (4) If any appointed member of the Oral Health Therapists
Accreditation Committee dies, resigns or is removed from office,
the vacancy so created must as soon as practicable be filled in the
manner in which the appointment to the vacant office was made; and
every person so appointed holds office for the remainder of the term
for which his or her predecessor was appointed.

 (5) The powers of the Oral Health Therapists Accreditation
Committee are not affected by any vacancy in the membership
thereof.

 (6) At any meeting of the Oral Health Therapists Accreditation
Committee, 3 members form a quorum.

 (7) At any meeting of the Oral Health Therapists Accreditation
Committee, the chairperson presides and, in the chairperson’s
absence, the members present must elect one of their members to
preside at the meeting.

 (8) If on any question to be determined by the Oral Health
Therapists Accreditation Committee there is an equality of votes, the
chairperson or the member presiding at the meeting has a casting
vote.

 (9) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Oral Health Therapists
Accreditation Committee may determine its own procedure.

                                                                             [21C

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             28

Certificate of registration of oral health therapist

 24. Where a person has been registered as an oral health therapist,
the Council must issue to the person a certificate of registration, and
the Council may require that there be affixed to the certificate a
photograph of that person or such other evidence of identity as the
Council may direct from time to time.

                                                                             [21D

Practising certificate of oral health therapist

 25.—(1) Any registered oral health therapist who desires to obtain a
practising certificate must apply to the Council in such form and
manner as the Council may prescribe.

 (2) The application must be accompanied by the prescribed fee.

 (3) A practising certificate must be granted for a period not
exceeding 2 years from the date of issue of the practising certificate.

 (4) Any application for renewal of a practising certificate must be
made not later than one month before the expiry of the practising
certificate in such form as the Council may require.

 (5) Any registered oral health therapist who applies for a practising
certificate later than one month before the expiry of the practising
certificate is liable to pay to the Council such late application fee as
may be prescribed by the Council.

 (6) The Council may —

       (a) refuse to grant a practising certificate to a registered oral
            health therapist; or

       (b) refuse to renew the practising certificate of a registered oral
            health therapist,

if the registered oral health therapist has contravened any condition
that is imposed by the Council with the approval of the Minister for
the purposes of this section.

 (7) Where a registered oral health therapist has had his or her name
removed from the Register of Oral Health Therapists or his or her
registration suspended under any provision of this Act, any practising
certificate issued to him or her is deemed to be cancelled and the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
29  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

registered oral health therapist must immediately surrender the
certificate to the Council.

 (8) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (7) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1,000.

 (9) For the purposes of subsection (5), the Council may prescribe
different late application fees for applications made before, and
applications made after, the expiry of the practising certificates.

                                                                             [21E

Certificate of Registrar in relation to oral health therapists

 26. A certificate purporting to be under the hand of the Registrar —

       (a) to the effect that at any time or during any period specified
            in the certificate any person was or was not a registered
            oral health therapist, or had or did not have in force a
            practising certificate; or

       (b) as to any entry in the Register of Oral Health Therapists, or
            the removal from that Register of any entry,

is, in the absence of proof to the contrary, and without further proof of
the signature appended to the certificate, sufficient evidence of the
matters specified in the certificate.

                                                                             [21F

Correction of Register of Oral Health Therapists

 27.—(1) The Registrar must —

       (a) insert in the Register of Oral Health Therapists any
            alteration which may come to the Registrar’s knowledge
            in the name or address of any registered oral health
            therapist;

       (b) correct any error in any entry in the Register of Oral Health
            Therapists;

       (c) remove from the Register of Oral Health Therapists the
            name of any person —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             30

          (i) whose name is ordered to be removed under any
              provision of this Act; or

          (ii) who is deceased;

(d) insert in the Register of Oral Health Therapists any
     alteration in the qualifications or additional qualifications
     of a registered oral health therapist; and

          (e) remove from the Register of Oral Health Therapists the
              name of any person who has requested and shown
              sufficient reason for that person’s name to be removed
              from that Register, unless a complaint has been made, or an
              inquiry has, or investigations or proceedings have,
              commenced under Part 5 against that person.

 (2) The Registrar may remove from the Register of Oral Health
Therapists the name of any person who has not renewed his or her
practising certificate for a continuous period of at least 5 years.

                                                                             [21G

Removal of name from Register of Oral Health Therapists

 28.—(1) Despite the provisions of Part 5, the Council may order the
removal from the Register of Oral Health Therapists of the name of a
registered oral health therapist if it comes to the knowledge of the
Council that the registered oral health therapist —

       (a) has contravened any condition or restriction to which his or
            her registration as an oral health therapist is subject;

       (b) has obtained his or her registration by a fraudulent or an
            incorrect statement;

       (c) has had his or her qualification for registration under this
            Act withdrawn or cancelled by the authority through which
            it was acquired or by which it was awarded; or

       (d) has had his or her registration as an oral health therapist in
            any other country withdrawn, suspended or cancelled by
            the authority which registered him or her.

 (2) The Council must, before exercising its powers under
subsection (1), notify the registered oral health therapist concerned

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
31  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

of its intention to take such action and must give the registered oral
health therapist an opportunity to submit reasons, within such period
as the Council may determine, why his or her name should not be
removed.

 (3) Any person aggrieved by an order under subsection (1) may,
within 30 days of being notified of the order, appeal to the Minister
whose decision is final.

                                                                             [21H

                                    PART 4

                       PRACTICE OF DENTISTRY

Prohibition of practice of dentistry

 29.—(1) Subject to sections 73 and 74, a person must not practise
dentistry in Singapore unless the person is a registered dentist and has
in force a practising certificate.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to any registered oral health
therapist who has in force a practising certificate and who practises
dentistry in Singapore in accordance with the scope of practice
prescribed under section 79.

 (3) Any person who acts in contravention of subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [22

Liability of employer, etc., for practice of dentistry in
contravention of section 29

 30.—(1) Where an offence is committed under section 29 by any
person acting as an employee, an agent or a partner of another person,
that other person shall also be guilty of an offence.

 (2) It is a defence to a charge brought under subsection (1) if the
defendant proves that the firstmentioned offence was committed
without the defendant’s knowledge and that the defendant took
reasonable precautions and exercised due diligence to prevent the
commission of that offence.

                                                                               [23

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             32

Liability of registered dentist or registered oral health
therapist for allowing another to act in contravention of
section 29, etc.

 31.—(1) A registered dentist or registered oral health therapist who
allows a person to practise dentistry in contravention of section 29 on
any premises used by or under the control of that registered dentist or
registered oral health therapist shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) A registered dentist or registered oral health therapist who, by
his or her presence, countenance, advice, assistance or cooperation,
has knowingly enabled a person, whether described as an assistant or
otherwise, to practise dentistry in contravention of section 29 shall be
guilty of an offence.

 (3) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1) or (2), it
is a defence for the defendant to prove that —

(a) the commission of the offence was due to a mistake on his
     or her part or to reliance on information supplied to him or
     her or to the act of another person or some other cause
     beyond his or her control; and

(b) the defendant took all reasonable precautions and
     exercised due diligence to prevent the commission of the
     offence.

 (4) A registered dentist or registered oral health therapist who
practises dentistry on any premises on which any person practises
dentistry in contravention of section 29, knowing or having reason to
believe that that person was practising dentistry on those premises in
contravention of section 29, shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [24

Suspended persons not to practise dentistry during period of
suspension

 32.—(1) Any person whose registration as a dentist or an oral
health therapist under this Act has been suspended under section 50 or
55 must not practise dentistry during the period of his or her
suspension.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
33  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                               [25

Pretending to be or taking or using the name or title of dentist,
etc.

 33.—(1) A person, other than a registered dentist who has in force a
practising certificate, must not take or use —

       (a) the title of dentist, dental surgeon, registered dentist,
            qualified dentist, doctor of dental surgery, professor of
            dentistry or surgeon dentist;

       (b) any prescribed title under section 38(5); or

       (c) any name, title, addition or description implying, whether
            in itself or in the circumstances in which it is used, that that
            person is qualified to heal or treat dental disorders or
            derangement, whether by dentistry or any other means of
            any kind or description.

 (2) A person, other than a registered oral health therapist who has in
force a practising certificate, must not take or use —

       (a) the title of oral health therapist; or

       (b) any name, title, addition or description implying, whether
            in itself or in the circumstances in which it is used, that that
            person is qualified to heal or treat dental disorders or
            derangement, whether by dentistry or any other means of
            any kind or description.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [26

Fraudulent registration, etc.

 34. Any person who —

       (a) procures or attempts to procure registration as a dentist or
            an oral health therapist under this Act, a certificate of
            registration or a practising certificate, by knowingly

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             34

          making or producing or causing to be made or produced
          any false or fraudulent declaration, certificate, application
          or representation, whether in writing or otherwise;

(b) wilfully makes or causes to be made any false entry in the
     appropriate register;

          (c) forges or alters a certificate of registration or a practising
              certificate;

(d) fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine a certificate of
     registration or a practising certificate which he or she
     knows or has reason to believe is forged or altered; or

          (e) buys, sells or fraudulently obtains a certificate of
              registration or a practising certificate,

shall be guilty of an offence.
                                                                               [27

General penalty

 35. Any person who is guilty of an offence under section 29, 30, 31,
32, 33 or 34 shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$25,000 and, in the case of a second or subsequent conviction for an
offence under any of those sections, to a fine not exceeding $50,000
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                                                               [28

Recovery of fees

 36.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person is not
entitled to demand, claim, accept, receive, retain or sue for or recover
any fee or charge in any court for the carrying out of any act within
the practice of dentistry unless, at the time of carrying out the act, the
person is registered as a dentist or an oral health therapist under this
Act and has in force a practising certificate.

 (2) This section does not apply to any medical practitioner
registered under the Medical Registration Act 1997.

                                                                               [29

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
35  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

Evidence of qualification and entry of additional qualifications

 37.—(1) A qualification must not be entered in an appropriate
register unless the Registrar is satisfied by such evidence as the
Registrar may consider proper that the person claiming the
qualification is entitled to the qualification.

 (2) Every person registered under this Act, who obtains any
qualification in addition to the qualification by virtue of which the
person has been registered, may apply to the Council to have that
additional qualification inserted in the relevant register.

 (3) The Council has power to decide on the additional
qualifications which may be entered in an appropriate register.

                                                                               [30

Use of qualification and title

 38.—(1) A registered dentist or registered oral health therapist must
not use any qualification other than the qualifications which are
entered in the Register of Dentists in respect of him or her, or which
have been approved by the Council for his or her use.

 (2) A registered dentist whose name appears in the first division of
the Register of Dentists must not use any title, addition or designation
other than —

       (a) the title, addition or designation which has been approved
            by the Council for his or her use; or

       (b) if his or her name has been entered in a list mentioned in
            subsection (6) in respect of a title prescribed under
            subsection (5), the prescribed title.

 (3) A registered dentist whose name appears in the second division
of the Register of Dentists must not use any title, addition or
designation other than that of “registered dentist”, “dentist” or, if his
or her name has been entered in a list mentioned in subsection (6) in
respect of a title prescribed under subsection (5), the prescribed title.

 (4) Any registered dentist or registered oral health therapist who
contravenes subsection (1), (2) or (3) may be subject to disciplinary
proceedings under Part 5 and for the purposes of that Part, such
contravention is deemed to be an act which brings disrepute to the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             36

profession of a registered dentist or registered oral health therapist, as
the case may be.

 (5) If the Council is of the opinion that any branch of dentistry has
become so distinctive that it would be for the convenience of the
public or of the dental profession that registered dentists qualified to
practise, or practising, in that branch of dentistry should use a
distinctive title, the Council may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations to prescribe appropriate titles and conditions under
which they may be used.

(6) In the case of any prescribed title, regulations may provide —

(a) for a list to be kept by the Council of the names of
     registered dentists who are qualified under those
     regulations to use that title; and

(b) for any registered dentist who is so qualified to be entitled
     to have his or her name entered in the list.

 (7) For the purposes of this section, “use”, in relation to any
qualification, title, addition or designation, includes to exhibit or
publish the qualification, title, addition or designation in any card,
letter, stationery, nameplate, signboard, placard, circular, handbill or
any notice displayed by the registered dentist concerned at any
premises used by him or her for the practice of dentistry.

                                                                               [31

False assumption of title of specialist

 39.—(1) A registered dentist who is not registered under
section 14C as a specialist in a branch of dentistry must not —

       (a) practise dentistry or that branch of dentistry under the style
            or title of a specialist in that branch of dentistry, or under
            any name, title, addition or description implying that the
            registered dentist is such a specialist or has any degree,
            qualification or experience in that branch of dentistry; or

       (b) advertise or hold himself or herself out as a specialist in
            that branch of dentistry.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
37  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

 (2) A registered dentist who contravenes subsection (1) may be
subject to disciplinary proceedings under this Act.

                                                                             [31A

Certain registered dentists not to perform prescribed
procedures

 40.—(1) The Council may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations prohibiting a person to whom this section applies from
performing such procedures within the practice of dentistry as are
prescribed by those regulations.

 (2) This section applies to any person deemed to be a registered
dentist under section 80(1) on the ground that he or she is registered
under the repealed Act immediately before 15 October 1999 by virtue
of section 6(1)(e) of the repealed Act.

                                                                               [32

                                   PART 4A

       DENTAL SPECIALISTS ACCREDITATION BOARD

Establishment of Dental Specialists Accreditation Board

 41.—(1) There is to be a board called the Dental Specialists
Accreditation Board (called in this Part the Accreditation Board)
consisting of at least 8 registered dentists to be appointed by the
Minister.

 (2) The chairperson of the Accreditation Board is to be appointed
by the Minister from among its members.

 (3) The chairperson and members of the Accreditation Board are
appointed for a term not exceeding 3 years but may be re‑appointed
and may at any time be removed from office by the Minister.

 (4) If any member of the Accreditation Board dies, resigns or is
removed from office, the Minister may fill the vacancy by the
appointment of a registered dentist and every person so appointed
holds office for the remainder of the term for which the vacating
member was appointed.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             38

 (5) The powers of the Accreditation Board are not affected by any
vacancy in its membership.

 (6) At any meeting of the Accreditation Board, 3 members form a
quorum.

 (7) At any meeting of the Accreditation Board, the chairperson
presides and, in the chairperson’s absence, the members present must
elect one of their members to preside at the meeting.

 (8) If on any question to be determined by the Accreditation Board
there is an equality of votes, the chairperson or the member presiding
at the meeting has a casting vote.

 (9) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Accreditation Board
may determine its own procedure.

 (10) The Accreditation Board may appoint one or more committees
consisting of those members that it thinks fit to assist the
Accreditation Board in carrying out its functions under this Act.

                                                                             [32A

Functions of Accreditation Board

 42.—(1) The functions of the Accreditation Board are —

       (a) to determine the qualifications, experience and other
            conditions for registration as specialists under this Act;

       (b) to define specialties in dentistry for the purposes of
            maintaining and keeping the Register of Specialists;

       (c) to accredit the training programmes to be recognised for
            persons who intend to qualify for registration as specialists
            under this Act;

       (d) to certify persons who have the qualifications and
            experience and satisfy the other conditions for
            registration as specialists under this Act;

       (e) to recommend to the Council programmes for the
            continuing professional education of persons who are
            registered as specialists under this Act; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
39  Dental Registration Act 1999  2022 Ed.

    (f) to advise the Council on matters affecting or connected
        with the registration of specialists under this Act.

 (2) Any person who desires to be certified as a specialist may apply
to the Accreditation Board.

 (3) Any person who is aggrieved by the refusal of the Accreditation
Board to grant him or her a certificate as a specialist may, within
one month of the notice of the refusal, appeal to the Minister whose
decision is final.

                                                                             [32B

                                    PART 5

          DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS AND HEALTH
                        COMMITTEE INQUIRIES

                   Division 1 — Complaints Committee

Appointment of Complaints Panel

 43.—(1) For the purpose of enabling Complaints Committees and
Disciplinary Committees to be constituted in accordance with this
Part, the Council must appoint a panel (called in this Act the
Complaints Panel) consisting of —

       (a) at least 5 members of the Council;

       (b) at least 10 registered dentists of at least 10 years’ standing
            who are not members of the Council;

       (c) at least 5 registered oral health therapists who have at least
            10 years of practical experience in the area of oral health
            therapy and who are not members of the Council; and

       (d) at least 5 lay persons nominated by the Minister.

 (2) The term of office of a member of the Complaints Panel
mentioned in subsection (1)(a) expires at the end of his or her term of
office as member of the Council, and a member of the Complaints
Panel mentioned in subsection (1)(b), (c) or (d) is to be appointed for
a term of 2 years; and any member is eligible for re‑appointment.

 (3) The Council may at any time remove from office any member of
the Complaints Panel or fill any vacancy in its membership.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             40

 (4) The Council must appoint a member of the Complaints Panel
who is a member of the Council to be the chairperson of the
Complaints Panel.

                                                                               [33

Complaints against registered dentists and registered oral
health therapists

 44.—(1) Any —

       (a) complaint of the conduct of a registered dentist or
            registered oral health therapist in his or her professional
            capacity or of his or her improper act or conduct which
            brings disrepute to his or her profession;

       (b) information on the conviction of a registered dentist or
            registered oral health therapist of any offence implying a
            defect in character which makes him or her unfit for his or
            her profession; or

       (c) information touching upon the physical or mental fitness to
            practise of a registered dentist or registered oral health
            therapist,

must be made or given to the Council which must refer the complaint
or information, other than a complaint or information touching on the
matters mentioned in section 20 or 28, to the chairperson of the
Complaints Panel.

 (2) The Council may, on its own motion, refer any information on
the conviction of a registered dentist or registered oral health therapist
of any offence implying a defect in character which makes him or her
unfit for his or her profession to the chairperson of the Complaints
Panel.

 (3) Where a registered dentist or registered oral health therapist has
contravened section 38 or 39, or has been convicted in Singapore or
elsewhere of an offence involving fraud or dishonesty, the Council
must, despite subsection (1) or (2), immediately refer the matter to a
Disciplinary Committee under section 47.

 (4) Every complaint made or information given must be in writing
and must be supported by such statutory declaration as the Council

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
41  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

may require, except that no statutory declaration is required if the
complaint or information is made or given by any public officer.

 (5) The chairperson of the Complaints Panel may from time to time
appoint one or more committees (called for the purposes of this Act
Complaints Committees) consisting of —

    (a) a chairperson, being a member of the Complaints Panel
         who is a member of the Council;

    (b) 2 members of the Complaints Panel comprising
         2 registered dentists or one registered dentist and one
         registered oral health therapist; and

    (c) a member of the Complaints Panel who is a lay person,

which must inquire into any complaint or information mentioned in
subsection (1) or (2).

 (6) A Complaints Committee is to be appointed in connection with
one or more matters or for such fixed period of time as the
chairperson of the Complaints Panel may think fit.

 (7) Where any complaint or information mentioned in
subsection (1)(a) or (b) or (2) is referred to the chairperson of the
Complaints Panel, the chairperson of the Complaints Panel must lay
the complaint or information before a Complaints Committee.

 (8) Where any complaint or information mentioned in
subsection (1)(c) is referred to the chairperson of the Complaints
Panel, the chairperson of the Complaints Panel must —

    (a) if he or she is satisfied, based on any information given in
         support of the complaint or information, that a formal
         inquiry is necessary to determine the physical or mental
         fitness of the registered dentist or registered oral health
         therapist to practise, refer the complaint or information to
         the Health Committee; or

    (b) in any other case, lay the complaint or information before a
         Complaints Committee.

 (9) The chairperson of the Complaints Panel may at any time
revoke the appointment of any Complaints Committee or may

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             42

remove any member of a Complaints Committee or fill any vacancy
in a Complaints Committee.

 (10) No act done by or under the authority of a Complaints
Committee is invalid in consequence of any defect that is
subsequently discovered in the appointment or qualification of the
members or any of them.

 (11) All the members of a Complaints Committee must be present
to constitute a quorum for a meeting of the Complaints Committee
and any resolution or decision in writing signed by all the members of
a Complaints Committee is as valid and effectual as if it had been
made or reached at a meeting of the Complaints Committee where all
its members were present.

 (12) A Complaints Committee may meet for the purposes of its
inquiry, adjourn and otherwise regulate the conduct of its inquiry as
the members may think fit.

 (13) The chairperson of a Complaints Committee may at any time
summon a meeting of the Complaints Committee.

 (14) All members of a Complaints Committee present at any
meeting of the Complaints Committee must vote on any question
arising at the meeting and that question is to be determined by a
majority of votes and, in the case of an equality of votes, the
chairperson has a casting vote.

 (15) A member of a Complaints Committee, even though he or she
has ceased to be a member of the Complaints Panel on the expiry of
his or her term of office, is deemed to be a member of the Complaints
Panel until such time as the Complaints Committee has completed its
work.

                                                                               [34

Inquiry by Complaints Committee

 45.—(1) A Complaints Committee must inquire into any complaint
or information, or any information or evidence mentioned in
subsection (9), and complete its preliminary inquiry not later than
3 months from —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
43                   Dental Registration Act 1999            2022 Ed.

    (a) the date the complaint or information is laid before the
         Complaints Committee; or

    (b) the date the information or evidence mentioned in
         subsection (9) is received by the Complaints Committee,

as the case may be.

 (2) Where a Complaints Committee is of the opinion that it will not
be able to complete its preliminary inquiry within the period specified
in subsection (1) due to the complexity of the matter or serious
difficulties encountered by the Complaints Committee in conducting
its preliminary inquiry, the Complaints Committee may apply in
writing to the chairperson of the Complaints Panel for an extension of
time to complete its inquiry and the chairperson of the Complaints
Panel may grant any extension of time to the Complaints Committee
that the chairperson thinks fit.

 (3) For the purposes of any inquiry, a Complaints Committee
may —

    (a) call upon or appoint any person it considers necessary to
         assist it in its investigations and deliberations;

    (b) require the production of any book, document, paper or
         other record which may be related to or be connected with
         the subject matter of the inquiry for inspection by the
         Complaints Committee or the person appointed under
         paragraph (a) and for making copies thereof; and

    (c) require the registered dentist or registered oral health
        therapist concerned to give all information in relation to
        any book, document, paper or other record which may be
        reasonably required by the Complaints Committee or by
        the person so appointed.

 (4) Any registered dentist, registered oral health therapist or any
other person who, without lawful excuse —

    (a) refuses or fails to produce to a Complaints Committee or to
         any person to whom the Complaints Committee may
         appoint for the purpose of the inquiry any book, document,
         paper or other record mentioned in subsection (3); or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             44

(b) fails to give any such information relating to that book,
     document, paper or other record,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $50 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

 (5) All information, including any book, document, paper or other
record used by the Complaints Committee in the course of its
deliberations, is confidential and must not be disclosed to any person
including the registered dentist or registered oral health therapist
unless the Complaints Committee thinks otherwise.

 (6) The Complaints Committee may, at any time before it makes its
findings, seek any legal advice that it thinks necessary.

 (7) Where a Complaints Committee is of the opinion that a
registered dentist or registered oral health therapist should be
called upon to answer any allegation made against him or her, the
Complaints Committee must post or deliver to that registered dentist
or registered oral health therapist —

(a) copies of any complaint or information and of any statutory
     declaration or affidavit that have been made in support of
     the complaint or information; and

(b) a notice inviting that registered dentist or registered oral
     health therapist to give to the Complaints Committee,
     within the period (being at least 21 days) that is specified in
     the notice, any written explanation he or she may wish to
     offer.

 (8) The registered dentist or registered oral health therapist
concerned does not have the right to be heard by the Complaints
Committee, whether in person or by counsel, unless the Complaints
Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise allows.

 (9) Where, in the course of its inquiry, a Complaints Committee
receives information touching on or evidence of the conduct or
physical or mental fitness of the registered dentist or registered oral
health therapist concerned which may give rise to proceedings under

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
45  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

this Part, the Complaints Committee may, after giving notice to him
or her, decide on its own motion to inquire into that matter.

(10) Where the complainant withdraws the complaint before —

    (a) it is referred to a Complaints Committee or the Health
         Committee under this Part; or

    (b) the conclusion of the inquiry of a Complaints Committee
         or Disciplinary Committee before which it is laid, or of the
         Health Committee,

the Council may, despite such withdrawal, direct that an inquiry be
conducted into the complaint or the inquiry into the complaint be
continued, and the chairperson of the Complaints Panel, the
Complaints Committee, the Disciplinary Committee or the Health
Committee (as the case may be) must comply with that direction as if
the complaint had been made by the Council.

 (11) Any member of the Council who is employed in the Ministry
of Health is not disqualified from being a member of a Complaints
Committee or Disciplinary Committee or the Health Committee by
reason only that he or she or the complainant is so employed.

                                                                               [35

Findings of Complaints Committee

 46.—(1) Upon due inquiry into the complaint or information, or
any information or evidence mentioned in section 45(9), a
Complaints Committee must —

       (a) if it is of the view that no formal inquiry is necessary —

               (i) order that the registered dentist or registered oral
                   health therapist be issued with a letter of advice;

              (ii) order that the registered dentist or registered oral
                   health therapist be warned;

             (iii) order that the complaint or matter be dismissed; or

             (iv) make any other order that it thinks fit; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             46

(b) if it is of the view that a formal inquiry is necessary —

          (i) order that an inquiry be held by the Health
              Committee; or

          (ii) order that an inquiry be held by a Disciplinary
               Committee.

 (2) Where a Complaints Committee determines that a formal
inquiry is necessary, it must order that the inquiry be held by the
Health Committee if the complaint, information or evidence touches
upon the physical or mental fitness of the registered dentist or
registered oral health therapist to practise.

 (3) Where a Complaints Committee has made an order for a formal
inquiry to be held by a Disciplinary Committee, the Council must
immediately appoint a Disciplinary Committee which must hear and
investigate the complaint or matter.

 (4) Where a Complaints Committee has ordered that a letter of
advice be issued, the chairperson of the Complaints Committee must
issue a letter of advice in the terms that it thinks fit.

 (5) A Complaints Committee must notify the registered dentist or
registered oral health therapist concerned and the person who made
the complaint or gave the information under section 44(1) of its
decision under subsection (1) and, if it makes an order under
subsection (1)(a), the reason for making the order.

 (6) Any registered dentist or registered oral health therapist who is
aggrieved by any order of a Complaints Committee under
subsection (1)(a) may, within 30 days of being notified of the
determination of the Complaints Committee, appeal to the Minister
whose decision is final.

 (7) Where the person who has made the complaint or given the
information to the Council is dissatisfied with any order of a
Complaints Committee under subsection (1)(a), the person may,
within 30 days of being notified of the determination of the
Complaints Committee, appeal to the Minister whose decision is
final.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
47  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

(8) The Minister may make —

    (a) an order affirming the determination of a Complaints
         Committee;

    (b) an order directing the Council to immediately appoint a
         Disciplinary Committee to hear and investigate the
         complaint or matter;

    (c) an order directing that an inquiry into the matter be held by
        the Health Committee; or

    (d) any other order that the Minister thinks fit.

 (9) Every Complaints Committee must immediately report to the
Council its findings and the order or orders made.

                                                                               [36

                  Division 2 — Disciplinary Committee

Appointment of Disciplinary Committee

 47.—(1) The president may, from time to time, appoint one or more
committees each consisting of —

       (a) a chairperson from a panel, to be appointed by the Minister,
            comprising fully registered dentists whose names appear in
            the first division of the Register of Dentists and who have
            had at least 20 years’ experience in the practice of
            dentistry;

       (b) at least one member of the Council;

       (c) at least one member of the Complaints Panel, not being a
            member of the Council; and

       (d) an observer who is a lay person,

to be known as a Disciplinary Committee, to inquire into —

       (e) any complaint or matter in respect of which the Minister or
            a Complaints Committee has under section 46 ordered that
            an inquiry be held by a Disciplinary Committee; or

        (f) any matter referred to it under section 44(3).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             48

 (2) A member of a Complaints Committee inquiring into any matter
concerning a registered dentist or registered oral health therapist must
not be a member of a Disciplinary Committee inquiring into the same
matter.

 (3) The member of a Disciplinary Committee who is an observer
must not vote on any question or matter to be decided by the
Disciplinary Committee and need not be present at every meeting of
the Disciplinary Committee.

 (4) A Disciplinary Committee may be appointed in connection with
one or more matters or for a fixed period of time as the Council may
think fit.

 (5) The Council may at any time revoke the appointment of any
Disciplinary Committee or may remove any member of a
Disciplinary Committee or fill any vacancy in a Disciplinary
Committee.

 (6) No act done by or under the authority of a Disciplinary
Committee is invalid in consequence of any defect that is
subsequently discovered in the appointment or qualification of the
members or any of them.

(7) Except as provided by subsection (3) —

(a) all members of a Disciplinary Committee must be
     personally present to constitute a quorum for the
     transaction of any business; and

(b) all members of a Disciplinary Committee present at any
     meeting of the Disciplinary Committee must vote on any
     question arising at the meeting and that question is to be
     determined by a majority of votes and, in the case of an
     equality of votes, the chairperson has a casting vote.
                                                                       [37

Proceedings of Disciplinary Committee

 48.—(1) A Disciplinary Committee is to meet from time to time to
inquire into any matter referred to it by the Council and may regulate
its own procedure.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
49  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

 (2) A member of a Disciplinary Committee, even though he or she
has ceased to be a member of the Council or Complaints Panel on the
expiry of his or her term of office, continues to be a member of the
Disciplinary Committee until such time as the Disciplinary
Committee has completed its work.

 (3) The registered dentist or registered oral health therapist may
appear in person or be represented by counsel.

 (4) A Disciplinary Committee is not bound to act in any formal
manner and is not bound by the provisions of the Evidence Act 1893
or by any other written law relating to evidence but may inform itself
on any matter in any manner that it thinks fit.

 (5) A Disciplinary Committee may, for the purpose of any
proceedings before it, administer oaths and any party to the
proceedings may take out a subpoena to testify or a subpoena to
produce documents.

 (6) The subpoenas mentioned in subsection (5) must be served and
may be enforced as if they were orders to attend court or orders to
produce documents issued in connection with a civil action in the
General Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                [40/2019; 25/2021]

 (7) Any person giving evidence before a Disciplinary Committee is
legally bound to tell the truth.

 (8) Witnesses have the same privileges and immunities in relation
to hearings before a Disciplinary Committee as if the hearings were
proceedings in a court of law.

 (9) A Disciplinary Committee must carry out its work expeditiously
and may apply to the Council for an extension of time and for
directions to be given to the Disciplinary Committee if the
Disciplinary Committee fails to make its finding and order within
6 months from the date of its appointment.

 (10) When an application for extension of time has been made
under subsection (9), the Council may grant an extension of time for
any period that it thinks fit.

 (11) In sections 172, 173, 174, 175, 177, 179, 182 and 228 of the
Penal Code 1871, “public servant” is deemed to include a member of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             50

a Disciplinary Committee taking part in any investigation under this
section, and in sections 193 and 228 of the Penal Code 1871, “judicial
proceeding” is deemed to include any such investigation.

                                                                               [38

Reference and transfer of cases to Health Committee

 49.—(1) Where, in the course of inquiring into the case of a
registered dentist or registered oral health therapist, it appears to a
Disciplinary Committee that his or her fitness to practise may be
impaired by reason of his or her physical or mental condition, the
Disciplinary Committee may refer that question to the Health
Committee for determination.

 (2) If, on a reference under this section, the Health Committee
determines that the fitness of the registered dentist or registered oral
health therapist to practise is not impaired by reason of his or her
condition, the Health Committee must certify its opinion to the
Disciplinary Committee.

 (3) If, on a reference under this section, the Health Committee
determines that the fitness of the registered dentist or registered oral
health therapist to practise is impaired by reason of his or her
condition, the Health Committee must —

       (a) certify its opinion to the Disciplinary Committee; and

       (b) proceed to dispose of the case,

and the Disciplinary Committee ceases to exercise its function in
relation to the case.

                                                                               [39

Findings of Disciplinary Committee

 50.—(1) Where a registered dentist or registered oral health
therapist is found or judged by a Disciplinary Committee —

       (a) to have been convicted in Singapore or elsewhere of any
            offence involving fraud or dishonesty;

       (b) to have been convicted in Singapore or elsewhere of any
            offence implying a defect in character which makes him or
            her unfit for his or her profession;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
51  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

    (c) to have been guilty of such improper act or conduct which,
        in the opinion of the Disciplinary Committee, brings
        disrepute to his or her profession;

    (d) to have been guilty of professional misconduct; or

    (e) to have contravened section 38 or 39,

the Disciplinary Committee may exercise one or more of the powers
set out in subsection (2).

(2) The powers mentioned in subsection (1) are as follows:

    (a) by order direct the Registrar to remove the name of the
         registered dentist or registered oral health therapist
         concerned from the appropriate register;

    (b) by order suspend the registration of the registered dentist or
         registered oral health therapist concerned for a period of at
         least 3 months and not more than 3 years;

    (c) by order impose any conditions that are necessary to
        restrict the practice of the registered dentist or registered
        oral health therapist concerned in any manner that the
        Disciplinary Committee thinks fit for a period not
        exceeding 3 years;

    (d) by order impose on the registered dentist or registered oral
         health therapist concerned a penalty not exceeding
         $50,000;

    (e) by writing censure the registered dentist or registered oral
        health therapist concerned;

    (f) by order require the registered dentist or registered oral
        health therapist concerned to give any undertaking that the
        Disciplinary Committee thinks fit to abstain in future from
        the conduct complained of;

    (g) make any other order that the Disciplinary Committee
         thinks fit.

 (3) In any proceedings instituted under this Part against a registered
dentist or registered oral health therapist consequent upon his or her
conviction for a criminal offence, a Disciplinary Committee and the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             52

General Division of the High Court on appeal from any order of the
Disciplinary Committee are to accept his or her conviction as final
and conclusive.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (4) A Disciplinary Committee may under subsection (2) order the
registered dentist or registered oral health therapist concerned to pay
to the Council the sums that it thinks fit in respect of costs and
expenses of and incidental to any proceedings before the Disciplinary
Committee and, where applicable, an Interim Orders Committee.

 (5) The General Division of the High Court has jurisdiction to tax
the costs mentioned in subsection (4) and any such order for costs
made is enforceable as if it were ordered in connection with a civil
action in the General Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (6) The Disciplinary Committee in ordering that costs be paid by
the registered dentist or registered oral health therapist under this
section may certify that costs for more than one solicitor be paid if it
is satisfied that the issues involved in the proceedings are of sufficient
complexity, and the certification by the Disciplinary Committee has
the same effect as if it were a certification by a Judge in a civil action
in the General Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (7) The costs and expenses mentioned in subsection (4) include —

(a) the costs and expenses of any assessor and advocate and
     solicitor appointed by the Council for proceedings before
     the Disciplinary Committee and the Interim Orders
     Committee;

(b) any reasonable expenses that the Council may pay to
     witnesses; and

          (c) any reasonable expenses that are necessary for the conduct
              of proceedings before the Disciplinary Committee and the
              Interim Orders Committee.
                                                                                 [40

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
53  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

Orders of Disciplinary Committee

 51.—(1) Where a registered dentist or registered oral health
therapist in respect of whom an order is made under
section 50(2)(c), or an order for interim restricted registration is
made under section 58(1)(b) or 60(1)(d), is judged by a Disciplinary
Committee (whether, in the case of an order under section 50(2)(c), it
is the Disciplinary Committee that made the order or another
Disciplinary Committee appointed in its place) to have failed to
comply with any of the requirements imposed on him or her as
conditions of his or her registration, the Disciplinary Committee may,
if it thinks fit, order —

    (a) that his or her name be removed from the appropriate
         register; or

    (b) that his or her registration in the appropriate register be
         suspended for any period not exceeding 12 months that
         may be specified in the order.

 (2) Where a Disciplinary Committee has made an order for
suspension under subsection (1)(b) or section 50(2)(b), the
Disciplinary Committee may order that the registration of the
person whose registration is suspended must, as from the expiry of
the current period of suspension, be restricted in any manner that it
thinks fit for a period not exceeding 3 years.

 (3) Where a Disciplinary Committee has made an order for
suspension under subsection (1)(b) or section 50(2)(b) against a
person and that person has failed to comply with that order, the
Disciplinary Committee or another Disciplinary Committee
appointed in its place may, if it thinks fit, order —

    (a) that his or her name be removed from the appropriate
         register; or

    (b) that, as from the expiry of the current period of suspension,
         his or her registration in the appropriate register be
         restricted in any manner that it thinks fit for a period not
         exceeding 3 years.

 (4) Where a Disciplinary Committee has made an order under
section 50(2)(c), the Disciplinary Committee or another Disciplinary

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             54

Committee appointed in its place may revoke the order or revoke or
vary any of the conditions imposed by the order.

 (5) Subsection (1) applies to a registered dentist or registered oral
health therapist whose registration is subject to conditions imposed
by an order made under subsection (2) or (3) as it applies to a
registered dentist or registered oral health therapist whose registration
is subject to conditions imposed by an order for restricted registration
made under section 50(2)(c), and subsection (4) applies accordingly.

 (6) Where a Disciplinary Committee has made an order or has
varied the conditions imposed by an order under this section, the
Registrar must immediately serve on the person to whom the order
applies a notice of the order or the variation.

 (7) Any person who is aggrieved by any order mentioned in
subsection (6) may, within 30 days after the service on him or her of
the notice of the order, appeal to the General Division of the High
Court against the order and there is no appeal from the decision of the
General Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (8) In any appeal to the General Division of the High Court against
an order mentioned in subsection (6), the General Division of the
High Court is to accept as final and conclusive any finding of the
Disciplinary Committee relating to any issue of professional ethics or
standards of professional conduct unless that finding is in the opinion
of the General Division of the High Court unsafe, unreasonable or
contrary to the evidence.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (9) Subject to subsection (10), an order made by a Disciplinary
Committee for the removal of any name or for suspension of
registration under subsection (1) or (3) or section 50(2) does not take
effect until the expiry of 30 days after the order is made.

 (10) On making an order for the removal of any name or for
suspension of registration under subsection (1) or (3) or section 50(2),
a Disciplinary Committee may, if it is satisfied that to do so is
necessary for the protection of members of the public or would be in
the best interests of the registered dentist or registered oral health
therapist concerned, order that his or her registration in the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
55  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

appropriate register be suspended or that his or her name be removed
from the appropriate register immediately.

 (11) Where an order under subsection (10) is made, the Registrar
must immediately serve a notice of the order on the person to whom it
applies and if that person was present or represented at the
proceedings of the Disciplinary Committee, the order takes effect
from the time the order is made.

 (12) Where the person concerned is neither present nor represented
at the proceedings of the Disciplinary Committee, the order made
under subsection (10) takes effect from the time of service of the
notice of the order on that person.

 (13) An order of a Disciplinary Committee, other than an order for
the removal of any name or for suspension of registration under
subsection (1) or (3) or section 50(2), takes effect from the time the
order is made.

 (14) Despite anything in this section, where a registered dentist or
registered oral health therapist has appealed to the General Division
of the High Court against an order of a Disciplinary Committee under
subsection (7), the order does not take effect unless the order is
confirmed by the General Division of the High Court or the appeal is
for any reason dismissed by the General Division of the High Court or
is withdrawn.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (15) While any order of suspension of registration remains in force,
the person concerned is not to be regarded as being registered under
this Act, even though the person’s name still appears in the
appropriate register, but immediately on the expiry of such order
the person’s rights and privileges as a registered dentist or registered
oral health therapist are revived as from the date of the expiry
provided that the dentist or oral health therapist (as the case may be)
has complied with all the terms of the order.

 (16) Where a registered dentist or registered oral health therapist is
not found or judged by a Disciplinary Committee to have been
convicted or guilty of any matter mentioned in section 50(1), the
Disciplinary Committee must dismiss the complaint or matter.

                                                                               [41

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             56

Restoration of names to appropriate register

 52.—(1) Where the name of a dentist or an oral health therapist has
been removed from an appropriate register pursuant to an order made
by a Disciplinary Committee under section 50 or 51, the Council may,
upon application by the dentist or oral health therapist and if it thinks
fit, direct —

(a) that his or her name be restored to the appropriate register;
     or

(b) where the person is a dentist, that the person be registered
     as a dentist with conditional registration in Part II of the
     Register of Dentists, and section 14A(3) to (8) applies
     accordingly.

 (2) An application for the restoration of a name to an appropriate
register under subsection (1) must not be made to the Council —

(a) before the expiry of 3 years from the date of the removal of
     the name; or

(b) more than once in any period of 12 months by or on behalf
     of the dentist or oral health therapist,

and unless the dentist or oral health therapist has complied with all the
terms of the order made against him or her.

                                                                               [42

Report of breach

 53. Where any breach of any written law is disclosed to the
Disciplinary Committee in the course of an inquiry, the Disciplinary
Committee may, in its discretion, report the breach to the appropriate
authorities.

                                                                               [43

                     Division 3 — Health Committee

Health Committee

 54.—(1) There is to be a committee called the Health Committee
comprising at least 3 members of the Council, to be appointed by the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
57  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

president, which must inquire into any case referred to it under this
Act.

 (2) The president must appoint one of the members of the Health
Committee as the chairperson of the Committee.

 (3) A member of the Health Committee is to be appointed for a term
of 2 years and is eligible for re‑appointment.

 (4) The Council may, with the approval of the Minister, appoint
medical assessors to assist the Health Committee in its inquiry, and
pay to the medical assessors, as part of the expenses of the Council,
any remuneration that the Council may determine.

                                                                               [48

Unfitness to practise through illness, etc.

 55.—(1) Where the fitness of a registered dentist or registered oral
health therapist to practise dentistry is judged by the Health
Committee to be impaired by reason of his or her physical or
mental condition, the Health Committee may exercise one or more of
the following powers:

       (a) order that he or she pays to the Council costs and expenses
            of and incidental to any inquiry or hearing by the Health
            Committee and, where applicable, an Interim Orders
            Committee;

       (b) order that his or her registration as a dentist or an oral
            health therapist be suspended for any period not exceeding
            12 months that may be specified in the order;

       (c) order that his or her registration as a dentist or an oral
            health therapist be conditional on his or her compliance,
            during any period not exceeding 3 years that may be
            specified in the order, with any requirements that may be
            imposed by the Health Committee for the protection of
            members of the public or in his or her interests (called in
            this Division restricted registration);

       (d) recommend to the Council that his or her name be removed
            from the appropriate register.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             58

 (2) Where a registered dentist or registered oral health therapist in
respect of whom an order for restricted registration is made under
subsection (1)(c), or an order for interim restricted registration is
made under section 58(1)(b) or 60(1)(d), is judged by the Health
Committee to have failed to comply with any of the requirements
imposed on him or her as conditions of his or her registration, the
Health Committee may, if it thinks fit, order that his or her
registration be suspended for any period not exceeding 12 months
that may be specified in the order.

 (3) Where the Health Committee has made an order for suspension
under subsection (1)(b) or (2), the Health Committee may order that
the registration of the person whose registration is suspended must, as
from the expiry of the current period of suspension, be a restricted
registration.

 (4) Where the Health Committee has made an order for suspension
under subsection (1)(b) or (2) against a person and that person has
failed to comply with that order, the Health Committee may, if it
thinks fit —

(a) make a recommendation mentioned in subsection (1)(d) to
     the Council, and subsection (9) applies accordingly; or

(b) order that, as from the expiry of the current period of
     suspension, his or her registration in the appropriate
     register be restricted in the manner that it thinks fit for a
     period not exceeding 3 years.

 (5) Where the Health Committee has made an order for restricted
registration, the Health Committee may revoke the order or revoke or
vary any of the conditions imposed by the order.

 (6) Subsection (2) applies to a registered dentist or registered oral
health therapist whose registration is a restricted registration by virtue
of an order made under subsection (3) or (4) as it applies to a
registered dentist or registered oral health therapist whose registration
is a restricted registration by virtue of an order made under
subsection (1)(c), and subsection (5) applies accordingly.

 (7) Where the Health Committee has made any order under this
section, or has varied the conditions imposed by an order for

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
59  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

restricted registration, the Registrar must immediately serve on the
person to whom the order applies a notice of the order or of the
variation.

 (8) While a person’s registration is suspended by virtue of this
section, the person must not be regarded as being registered as a
dentist or an oral health therapist even though the person’s name still
appears in the appropriate register.

 (9) Where the Council accepts the recommendation of the Health
Committee under subsection (1)(d), the Council must by order direct
that the name of the registered dentist or registered oral health
therapist be removed from the appropriate register and that order
takes effect from the date it is made.

 (10) Sections 47(5), (6) and (7) and 48 apply, with the necessary
modifications, to the Health Committee and references to a
Disciplinary Committee are to be read as references to the Health
Committee.

 (11) Any person who is aggrieved by an order, or any variation of
the conditions imposed by an order for restricted registration, made
under this section may, within 21 days of the service on him or her of
the notification of the order, appeal to the Minister whose decision is
final.

 (12) Any order or any variation of the conditions imposed by an
order for restricted registration takes effect from the time the order or
variation is made unless the Minister decides otherwise.

                                                                               [49

Restoration of names removed on recommendation of Health
Committee

 56.—(1) Where the name of a person has been removed from an
appropriate register on the recommendation of the Health Committee
under section 55, the Council may, upon application by the person, if
it thinks fit, direct —

       (a) that the person’s name be restored to the appropriate
            register; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             60

       (b) where the person is a dentist, that the person be registered
            as a dentist with conditional registration in Part II of the
            Register of Dentists, and section 14A(3) to (8) applies
            accordingly.

                                                                                                           [20/2021]

 (2) An application under subsection (1) must not be made to the
Council more than once in any period of 12 months by or on behalf of
the dentist or oral health therapist.

 (3) An application under subsection (1) must not be made to the
Council by or on behalf of the dentist or oral health therapist unless
the dentist or oral health therapist has complied with all the terms of
the order made against him or her.

                                                                             [49A

                Division 4 — Interim Orders Committee

Interim Orders Committee

 57.—(1) The Council may, from time to time, appoint one or more
committees each comprising 3 of its members (called in this Act an
Interim Orders Committee) to inquire into any matter referred by the
Council under subsection (4).

 (2) The Council must appoint one of the members of the Interim
Orders Committee as chairperson of that Committee.

 (3) An Interim Orders Committee may be appointed in connection
with one or more matters or for a fixed period of time.

 (4) The chairperson of the Complaints Panel, a Complaints
Committee, a Disciplinary Committee or the Health Committee
may refer any complaint or information to the Council for the purpose
of determining if an order should be made under section 58; and the
Council must refer the complaint or information to an Interim Orders
Committee for this purpose.

 (5) A member of a Complaints Committee or Disciplinary
Committee inquiring into any matter must not be a member of an
Interim Orders Committee inquiring into or reviewing that matter.

 (6) A member of an Interim Orders Committee inquiring into or
reviewing any matter must not be a member of a Complaints

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
61  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

Committee or Disciplinary Committee inquiring into that matter, or
take part in any deliberation of the Council under section 55(9) in
respect of that matter.

 (7) The chairperson of the Complaints Panel and any member of the
Health Committee must not be a member of an Interim Orders
Committee.

 (8) All members of an Interim Orders Committee must vote on any
question arising at a meeting of the Interim Orders Committee and
such question is to be determined by a majority of votes.

 (9) A member of an Interim Orders Committee which has
commenced any inquiry or review of any case must, even though
he or she has ceased to be a member of the Council, continue to be a
member of the Interim Orders Committee until completion of that
inquiry or review.

 (10) Sections 47(5), (6) and (7) and 48(1) and (4) to (11) apply, with
the necessary modifications, to an Interim Orders Committee and to
proceedings before it as they apply to a Disciplinary Committee and
to proceedings before a Disciplinary Committee.

                                                                             [49B

Interim orders

 58.—(1) Where, upon due inquiry into any complaint or
information referred to it, an Interim Orders Committee is satisfied
that it is necessary for the protection of members of the public or is
otherwise in the public interest, or is in the interests of a registered
dentist or registered oral health therapist, for his or her registration to
be suspended or to be made subject to conditions, the Interim Orders
Committee may make an order —

       (a) that his or her registration in the appropriate register be
            suspended for any period not exceeding 18 months that
            may be specified in the order (called in this Division an
            interim suspension order); or

       (b) that his or her registration be conditional on his or her
            compliance, during any period not exceeding 18 months
            that may be specified in the order, with any specified

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             62

          requirements that the Interim Orders Committee thinks fit
          to impose (called in this Division an order for interim
          restricted registration).

 (2) The Registrar must immediately serve a notice of the order
under subsection (1) on the registered dentist or registered oral health
therapist.

                                                                             [49C

Review of interim orders

 59.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), where an Interim Orders
Committee has made an order under section 58, the Interim Orders
Committee or another Interim Orders Committee appointed in its
place —

       (a) must review the order within the period of 6 months
            beginning on the date on which the order was made, and
            must, for so long as the order continues in force, further
            review it before the end of the period of 3 months
            beginning on the date of the decision of the immediately
            preceding review; and

       (b) may review the order where new evidence relevant to the
            order has become available after the making of the order.

 (2) Where the General Division of the High Court has extended the
order under section 62(2) or an Interim Orders Committee has made a
replacement order under section 60(1)(c) or (d), the first review after
that extension or making of the replacement order must take place —

       (a) if the order (or the order which has been replaced) had not
            been reviewed under subsection (1), within the period of
            6 months beginning on the date on which the General
            Division of the High Court ordered the extension or on
            which the replacement order was made, as the case may be;
            or

       (b) if the order had been reviewed under subsection (1), within
            the period of 3 months beginning on the date on which the
            General Division of the High Court ordered the extension

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
63  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

    or on which the replacement order was made, as the case
    may be.

                                                                    [49D

                                                                                             [40/2019]

Interim Orders Committee may revoke, vary or replace
interim order

 60.—(1) Where an interim suspension order or an order for interim
restricted registration has been made under this section or section 58
in relation to any person, the Interim Orders Committee that made the
order or another Interim Orders Committee appointed in its place
may, either upon its review mentioned in section 59 or upon the
recommendation of a Complaints Committee, a Disciplinary
Committee or the Health Committee —

       (a) revoke the order or revoke any condition imposed by the
            order;

       (b) make an order varying any condition imposed by the order;

       (c) if satisfied that to do so is necessary for the protection of
            members of the public or is otherwise in the public interest,
            or is in the interests of the registered dentist or registered
            oral health therapist concerned, or that the registered
            dentist or registered oral health therapist has not complied
            with any requirement imposed as a condition of his or her
            registration in the order for interim restricted registration,
            replace that order with an interim suspension order having
            effect for the remainder of the period of the former; or

       (d) if satisfied that the public interest or the interests of the
            registered dentist or registered oral health therapist
            concerned would be more adequately served by an order
            for interim restricted registration, replace the interim
            suspension order with an order for interim restricted
            registration having effect for the remainder of the period
            of the former.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             64

 (2) The Registrar must immediately serve a notice of the decision
under subsection (1) on the registered dentist or registered oral health
therapist.

                                                                             [49E

Right of hearing

 61.—(1) An order under section 58 or 60(1)(b), (c) or (d) must not
be made by an Interim Orders Committee in respect of any registered
dentist or registered oral health therapist unless he or she has been
given an opportunity of appearing before the Interim Orders
Committee and being heard on the question whether such an order
should be made in his or her case.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the registered dentist or
registered oral health therapist may be represented before the Interim
Orders Committee by counsel.

 (3) Regulations made for the purposes of an Interim Orders
Committee may include provision securing that the registered
dentist or registered oral health therapist in respect of whom an
interim suspension order or an order for interim restricted registration
has been made is entitled, if he or she so requires, to be heard by the
Interim Orders Committee on each occasion on which it reviews the
order, and be represented by counsel during the review.

                                                                             [49F

Application to General Division of High Court

 62.—(1) The Council may apply to the General Division of the
High Court for an order made under section 58 or 60(1)(c) or (d) to be
extended, and may apply again for further extensions.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) On an application under subsection (1), the General Division of
the High Court may extend (or further extend) for up to 12 months the
period for which the order has effect.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) The General Division of the High Court may, on application by
the registered dentist or registered oral health therapist concerned —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
65  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

    (a) in the case of an interim suspension order, revoke the
         order;

    (b) in the case of an order for interim restricted registration,
         revoke the order or vary any condition imposed by the
         order; and

    (c) in either case, substitute for the period specified in the
        order (or in the order extending it) some other period which
        could have been specified in the order when it was made
        (or in the order extending it).
                                                                         [49G

                                                                                                    [40/2019]

Duration of interim orders

 63.—(1) An interim suspension order or an order for interim
restricted registration is in force until the earlier of the following:

       (a) the end of the period specified in the order or, if extended
            under section 62(2), in the order extending it;

       (b) the date on which proceedings are concluded.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(b), proceedings are
concluded if —

       (a) the Complaints Committee inquiring into the complaint or
            information has made an order under section 46(1)(a)
            and —

               (i) no appeal to the Minister under section 46(6) or (7)
                   was made against that decision within the period
                   specified in that section or such an appeal was
                   withdrawn; or

              (ii) the Minister made an order under section 46(8)(a)
                   or (c);

       (b) the Disciplinary Committee inquiring into the complaint or
            information has made an order under section 50(2) which
            has taken effect, or has dismissed the complaint or matter
            under section 51(16); or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.             Dental Registration Act 1999                  66

          (c) the Health Committee has made an order under
              section 55(1) which has taken effect, the Council has
              made an order under section 55(9) which has taken effect,
              or the Health Committee has dismissed the complaint or
              matter,

as the case may be.

                                                                   [49H

Person suspended under interim suspension order not
regarded as registered

 64.—(1) While a person’s registration in an appropriate register is
suspended by virtue of an interim suspension order, the person is not
to be regarded as being registered even though the person’s name still
appears in the appropriate register.

 (2) Immediately upon the expiry or revocation of the order, the
person’s rights and privileges as a registered dentist or registered oral
health therapist are to be revived from the date of that expiry or
revocation, provided that the person has complied with all the terms
of the order.

 (3) To avoid doubt, sections 43 to 50, 54 and 55 continue to apply to
a person whose registration in an appropriate register is suspended by
virtue of an interim suspension order.

                                                                              [49I

Council may appoint legal counsel

 65. For the purposes of an inquiry under this Part by a Disciplinary
Committee, the Health Committee or an Interim Orders Committee,
the Council may appoint an advocate and solicitor and pay the
advocate and solicitor, as part of the expenses of the Council, such
remuneration as the Council may determine.

                                                                              [49J

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
67  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

    Division 5 — Miscellaneous provisions

Restoration of names to appropriate register

 66.—(1) A person whose name has been removed from an
appropriate register under this Part may apply to the Council for
the person’s name to be restored to that appropriate register.

 (2) The Council may, after considering all relevant circumstances,
and upon the compliance by the applicant of all conditions imposed
by the Council (if any) and the payment of the prescribed fee, restore
the applicant’s name to the appropriate register.

 (3) Where the name of a person has been removed from an
appropriate register by a Disciplinary Committee, an application for
the restoration of the person’s name to that appropriate register must
not be made to the Council —

    (a) before the expiry of 3 years from the date of the removal of
         the name; or

    (b) more than once in any period of 12 months.
                                                                           [53

Recovery of penalties and costs

 67. Any penalty imposed by the Council under sections 5 and 50
and any costs payable by any person under this Act are recoverable by
the Council as a debt due to the Council from that person and the
person’s liability to pay is not affected by the person’s ceasing to be
registered with the Council.

                                                                             [53A

                                    PART 6

                                  GENERAL

Funds of Council, etc.

 68.—(1) All fees, penalties and other moneys payable to the
Council under this Act or any regulations made under this Act that are
not paid are recoverable as a debt due to the Council.

                                                                                                           [20/2021]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             68

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), all fees and other moneys (other than
penalties) collected or recovered by the Council under this Act or any
regulations made under this Act must be paid to the Council.

                                                                                                           [20/2021]

 (3) All penalties collected or recovered under this Act or any
regulations made under this Act must be paid into the Consolidated
Fund.

                                                                                                           [20/2021]

 (4) The costs and expenses of and incidental to the performance of
the functions of the Council, the Complaints Committees, the
Disciplinary Committees, the Health Committee and any
committee appointed by the Council under this Act must be paid
by the Council out of its funds.

 (5) The Minister may pay into the funds of the Council such sum of
money out of moneys to be provided by Parliament as the Minister
may determine.

                                                                               [54

Fees payable for members of Council and members of
committees

 69. There must be paid to —

       (a) the members of the Council; and

       (b) the members of any committee appointed by the Council or
            by the president,

who are not public officers or full-time members of the academic staff
of the National University of Singapore any fees that may be
approved by the Minister.

                                                                               [55

Inspectors

 70.—(1) The Council may appoint one or more public officers or
officers of the Board as inspectors to investigate the commission of an
offence under this Act or any regulations made under this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
69  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

 (2) In any case relating to the commission of an offence under this
Act or any regulations made under this Act, an inspector has the
power to do all or any of the following:

    (a) to require any person who the inspector has reason to
         believe has any article, document or information relevant
         to the carrying out of the provisions of this Act or the
         regulations made under this Act, to produce any such
         article or document, or give such information, and to retain
         such article or document, or make copies of such
         document;

    (b) to examine orally any person supposed to be acquainted
         with the facts and circumstances relevant to the carrying
         out of the provisions of this Act or the regulations made
         under this Act, and to reduce into writing the answer given
         or statement made by that person who is bound to state
         truly the facts and circumstances with which that person is
         acquainted, and the statement made by that person must be
         read over to him or her and must, after correction, be
         signed by him or her;

    (c) to require by order in writing the attendance before the
        inspector of any person who, from information given or
        otherwise, appears to be acquainted with facts and
        circumstances relevant to the carrying out of the
        provisions of this Act or the regulations made under this
        Act.

 (3) An inspector may apply to a Magistrate for a search warrant if
the inspector has reasonable cause to believe that evidence of the
commission of an offence under this Act or any regulations made
under this Act can be found on any premises; and the Magistrate may,
if satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for doing so, issue the
warrant.

 (4) A search warrant issued under subsection (3) authorises the
inspector to whom it is directed to enter and search the premises
mentioned in the warrant and to seize any thing found on the premises
which the inspector reasonably believes is evidence of the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                              70

commission of an offence under this Act or any regulations made
under this Act.

(5) Any person who —

(a) intentionally offers any resistance to or wilfully delays an
     inspector in the exercise of any power under subsection (2)
     or pursuant to a search warrant issued under subsection (3);
     or

(b) fails to comply with any requisition or order of an inspector
     under subsection (2),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

                                                                               [56

Assessor to Council

 71.—(1) For the purposes of advising the Council, Complaints
Committees, Disciplinary Committees, Health Committee or Interim
Orders Committee in any proceedings before any of them under the
provisions of this Act, the Council may appoint an assessor to the
Council who is an advocate and solicitor of at least 10 years’ standing.

 (2) The assessor must not participate or sit in any deliberations of
the Council, Complaints Committees, Disciplinary Committees,
Health Committee or Interim Orders Committee unless invited to
do so, and the assessor’s participation must be limited only to
questions of law arising from the proceedings.

 (3) The Council may pay to the assessor, as part of the expenses of
the Council, any remuneration that the Council may determine.

                                                                               [57

Protection from personal liability
 72. No liability shall lie against —
       (a) any member of the Council;
       (b) any member of —
               (i) the Dental Specialists Accreditation Board; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
71  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

    (ii) any committee appointed by the Dental Specialists
         Accreditation Board under section 41(10);

    (c) the chairperson of the Complaints Panel;

    (d) any member of —

    (i) any Complaints Committee, Disciplinary Committee
        or Interim Orders Committee;

    (ii) the Health Committee; and

    (iii) any committee appointed by the Council under this
          Act; or

    (e) any employee of the Council or any other person acting
        under the direction of the Council,

for anything which is done or purported to be done, or omitted to be
done, in good faith and with reasonable care in the exercise or
purported exercise of any power or the performance or purported
performance of any function under this Act or any regulations made
under this Act.

                                                                               [58

                                                                                                           [20/2021]

Service of documents

 72A.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by or under this
Act to be served on a person may be served as described in this
section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on an individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents
            generally, or specifically for the document, or (if no
            address is so specified) the individual’s residential address
            or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             72

(d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
     at the individual’s residential address or business address;
     or

          (e) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
              address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a partnership (other than a limited liability partnership)
may be served —

(a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer, or an
     authorised representative, of the partnership;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the partnership’s business address; or

          (c) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
              address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a body corporate (including a limited liability partnership)
or an unincorporated association may be served —

(a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
     body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
     limited liability partnership’s manager;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the registered office or principal office in Singapore of
     the body corporate or unincorporated association; or

          (c) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
              corporate or unincorporated association.

(5) Service of a document under this section takes effect —

(a) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
     after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
     undelivered); or

(b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
     becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
     it is sent.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
73  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

 (6) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email may be effected only with the person’s prior written consent to
service in that way.

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

(8) In this section —

    “authorised representative”, in relation to a partnership (other
       than a limited liability partnership), means any person
       authorised to accept service of documents on behalf of the
       partnership;

    “business address” means —

    (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
         last known place of business in Singapore; or

    (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
         liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
         last known place of business in Singapore;

    “document” includes a direction, an order or a notice permitted
       or required by or under this Act to be served;

    “last email address” means the last email address given by the
       addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
       document as the email address for the service of documents
       under this Act;

    “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
       place of residence in Singapore.

                                [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

Exemption in respect of medical practitioners

 73. Nothing in this Act prevents the practice of medicine or surgery
by any medical practitioner registered under the Medical Registration
Act 1997.

                                                                               [60

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.   Dental Registration Act 1999                            74

Exemption in respect of dental training

 74. Nothing in this Act prevents the doing of any act within the
practice of dentistry by any oral health therapist, dental student or
medical student if the act is carried out —

(a) in the course of his or her training;

(b) under the supervision of a registered dentist whose name
     appears in the first division of the Register of Dentists; and

          (c) in a hospital or dental school approved for the purposes of
              this section by the Council.
                                                                                 [61

Exemption

 75. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette and subject to any
conditions that he or she may impose, exempt any person or class of
persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act or any regulations
made under this Act.

                                                                             [61A

Composition of offences

 76.—(1) The Council may compound any offence under this Act or
any regulations made under this Act that is prescribed as a
compoundable offence by collecting from a person reasonably
suspected of having committed the offence a sum not exceeding
the lower of the following:

(a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
     prescribed for the offence; or

(b) $500.

                                                                   [20/2021]

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) The Council may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations to prescribe the offences which may be compounded.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
75  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                             [61B

                                                                                                           [20/2021]

Jurisdiction of court

 77. Despite anything to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act or any regulations made under this Act, and has power to
impose the full penalty or punishment in respect of the offence.

                                                                             [61C

                                                                                                           [20/2021]

Amendment of Schedule

 78.—(1) The Minister may, after consultation with the Council, by
order amend the Schedule.

                                                                                                           [20/2021]

 (2) The Minister may, in any order made under subsection (1),
make any saving or transitional provisions that may be necessary or
expedient.

                                                                             [61D

                                                                                                           [20/2021]

Power of Council to make regulations

 79.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Council may,
with the approval of the Minister, make regulations necessary or
expedient to give effect to the provisions and purposes of this Act and
for the due administration of the Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), regulations may be made to —

       (a) provide for the duties of the Registrar;

       (b) regulate the registration of dentists and oral health
            therapists;

       (c) provide for the form of the appropriate register and the
            mode in which it must be kept;

       (d) regulate the grant of practising certificates;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             76

          (e) regulate the procedure of any committee appointed by the
              Council or the president under this Act and the conduct of
              any proceedings of such committee;

          (f) regulate the professional practice, etiquette, conduct and
              discipline of registered dentists and registered oral health
              therapists;

(g) define the scope of practice of registered oral health
     therapists;

(h) regulate the removal and restoration of names in the
     appropriate register;

          (i) prescribe the forms necessary for the administration of this
              Act;

          (j) prescribe the fees and other charges for the purposes of this
              Act;

          (k) provide for the duties, functions and payment of medical
              assessors appointed under section 54 and the assessor
              appointed under section 71;

          (l) provide that any person who contravenes the regulations
              shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
              conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
              imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
              both; and

(m) prescribe any other matter that is necessary or authorised to
     be prescribed under this Act.
                                                                        [62

                                    PART 7

           SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

Persons who are already registered under repealed Act

 80.—(1) Every person who is registered under the repealed Act
immediately before 15 October 1999 is deemed to be a registered
dentist.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
77  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

 (2) Where the registration of a person under the repealed Act, being
a registration made pursuant to an order under section 6(1)(c) of that
Act, is subject to any condition or restriction imposed by the order,
the deemed registration of that person under subsection (1) is, unless
the Council otherwise determines, subject to the same condition or
restriction.

 (3) The deemed registration of a person under subsection (1), on the
ground that the person is registered under the repealed Act
immediately before 15 October 1999 by virtue of section 6(1)(d) of
the repealed Act, is subject to the condition that —

    (a) the person is exclusively employed in teaching, research or
         postgraduate study; and

    (b) the person does not engage in any form of private practice
         of dentistry.

 (4) Section 66 also applies to any person whose name was removed
from the register kept under the repealed Act.

                                                                               [64

Saving of certificates of registration issued under repealed Act

 81. Any certificate of registration issued under the repealed Act is
deemed to be a certificate of registration issued under this Act and is
subject to the provisions of this Act.

                                                                               [65

Pending disciplinary proceedings

 82.—(1) Any order or decision made by the Dental Board pursuant
to the provisions of the repealed Act or the regulations made under
the repealed Act is treated as an order or decision under this Act and
has the same force and effect as if it had been made or given by the
Disciplinary Committee pursuant to the powers vested in the
Disciplinary Committee under this Act.

 (2) Nothing in this section is to be taken as affecting section 16 of
the Interpretation Act 1965.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.                Dental Registration Act 1999               78

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), “Dental Board” means the
Dental Board established under section 3 of the repealed Act.

                                                                               [66

References in other written laws or documents

 83. In any written law and in any document —

       (a) any reference to the repealed Act is to be construed as a
            reference to this Act;

       (b) any reference to the Dental Board is to be construed as a
            reference to the Council;

       (c) any reference to the president of the Dental Board is to be
            construed as a reference to the president of the Council;
            and

       (d) any reference to a registered dentist is to be construed as a
            reference to a registered dentist under this Act.
                                                                               [68

                      THE SCHEDULE

                                                                      Sections 14A(1) and (2) and 78

LIST OF REGISTRABLE BASIC DENTAL QUALIFICATIONS

          First column     Second column                 Third column

Country, state or          Body granting                    Primary
     territory             qualifications                qualifications

1. Australia            .                             .

(1) New South Wales University of Sydney School BSc/DMD
                              of Dentistry

(2) Queensland          University of Queensland      BDSc (Hons)
                        School of Dentistry

(3) South Australia University of Adelaide Dental BDS
                              School

                        Adelaide University School of BDS
                        Dentistry

(4) Victoria            University of Melbourne       DDS
                        Dental School

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
79                     Dental Registration Act 1999             2022 Ed.

                     THE SCHEDULE — continued

    First column       Second column                       Third column

    Country, state or  Body granting                          Primary
         territory     qualifications                      qualifications

    (5) Western Australia University of Western            DMD
                                  Australia Dental School

2. Canada

    (1) Alberta        University of Alberta School DDS
                       of Dentistry

    (2) British Columbia University of British             DMD

                       Columbia Faculty of Dentistry

    (3) Manitoba       University of Manitoba              DMD

                       Dr. Gerald Niznick College of

                       Dentistry

    (4) Nova Scotia    Dalhousie University Faculty DDS
                       of Dentistry

    (5) Ontario        University of Toronto Faculty DDS
                       of Dentistry

                       University of Western Ontario DDS
                       Schulich School of Medicine
                       and Dentistry

    (6) Quebec         Laval University Faculty of DMD
                       Dentistry

                       McGill University Faculty of DMD
                       Dental Medicine and Oral
                       Health Sciences

                       University of Montreal              DMD
                       Faculty of Dentistry

    (7) Saskatchewan   University of Saskatchewan DMD
                       College of Dentistry

3. Hong Kong SAR       University of Hong Kong BDS
                       Faculty of Dentistry

4. New Zealand         University of Otago Faculty of BDS
                       Dentistry

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.                 Dental Registration Act 1999               80

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

         First column    Second column                 Third column
      Country, state or
                         Body granting                    Primary
            territory    qualifications                qualifications
5. Republic of Ireland
                         National University of Ireland BDS (Hons)
6. United Kingdom        Cork Dental School and
      (1) England        Hospital

                         University of Dublin School BDentSc
                         of Dental Science

                         University of Birmingham BDS
                         School of Dentistry

                         University of Bristol Dental BDS
                         School

                         University of Leeds School of MChD/BChD
                         Dentistry

                         University of Liverpool       BDS

                         School of Dentistry

                         University of London          BDS

                         (a) Queen Mary
                              University of
                              London Barts and
                              The London School
                              of Medicine and
                              Dentistry

                         (b) King’s College
                              London Faculty of
                              Dentistry, Oral &
                              Craniofacial
                              Sciences

                         University of Manchester BDS
                         Faculty of Biology, Medicine
                         and Health

                         University of Newcastle       BDS

                         School of Dental Sciences

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
81                     Dental Registration Act 1999              2022 Ed.

                    THE SCHEDULE — continued

    First column             Second column               Third column

    Country, state or        Body granting                  Primary
         territory           qualifications              qualifications

                             University of Sheffield School BDS
                             of Clinical Dentistry

    (2) Northern Ireland     Queen’s University Belfast BDS (Hons)
                             School of Medicine, Dentistry
                             and Biomedical Sciences

    (3) Scotland             University of Dundee School BDS
                             of Dentistry

                             University of Edinburgh     BSc Oral Health
                             Dental Institute            Sciences

                             University of Glasgow School BDS
                             of Medicine, Dentistry &
                             Nursing

    (4) Wales                Cardiff University School of BDS
                             Dentistry

7. United States of America

    (1) Alabama              University of Alabama at    DMD
                             Birmingham School of
                             Dentistry

    (2) Arizona              A.T. Still University Arizona DMD
                             School of Dentistry and Oral
                             Health

    (3) California           Loma Linda University       DDS
                             School of Dentistry

                             University of California, Los DDS
                             Angeles School of Dentistry

                             University of California, San DDS
                             Francisco School of Dentistry

                             University of the Pacific   DDS

                             Arthur A. Dugoni School of

                             Dentistry

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.            Dental Registration Act 1999                   82

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

   First column     Second column                 Third column
 Country, state or
                    Body granting                    Primary
      territory     qualifications                qualifications

 (4) Colorado       University of Southern        DDS
 (5) Connecticut    California Herman Ostrow
 (6) Florida        School of Dentistry

 (7) Georgia        University of Colorado        DDS
 (8) Illinois
                    School of Dental Medicine
 (9) Indiana
(10) Iowa           University of Connecticut DMD
(11) Kentucky       School of Dental Medicine

(12) Louisiana      Nova Southeastern University DMD
(13) Maryland       College of Dental Medicine

                    University of Florida College DMD
                    of Dentistry

                    Medical College of Georgia DMD
                    School of Dentistry

                    Southern Illinois University DMD
                    School of Dental Medicine

                    University of Illinois at     DMD

                    Chicago College of Dentistry

                    Northwestern University       DDS
                    Dental School

                    Indiana University School of DDS
                    Dentistry

                    University of Iowa College of DDS
                    Dentistry

                    University of Kentucky        DMD
                    College of Dentistry

                    University of Louisville      DMD
                    School of Dentistry

                    Louisiana State University DDS
                    School of Dentistry

                    University of Maryland        DDS
                    School of Dentistry

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
83  Dental Registration Act 1999                             2022 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

       First column     Second column                Third column
     Country, state or
                        Body granting                   Primary
          territory     qualifications               qualifications
    (14) Massachusetts
                        Boston University Henry M. DMD
    (15) Michigan       Goldman School of Dental
                        Medicine
    (16) Minnesota
    (17) Mississippi    Harvard School of Dental     DMD
    (18) Missouri       Medicine
    (19) Nebraska
                        Tufts University School of DMD
    (20) Nevada         Dental Medicine
    (21) New Jersey
    (22) New York       University of Detroit Mercy DDS
                        School of Dentistry

                        University of Michigan       DDS
                        School of Dentistry

                        University of Minnesota      DDS
                        School of Dentistry

                        University of Mississippi    DMD
                        School of Dentistry

                        University of                DDS

                        Missouri‑Kansas City School

                        of Dentistry

                        Creighton University School DDS
                        of Dentistry

                        University of Nebraska       DDS
                        Medical Center College of
                        Dentistry

                        University of Nevada, Las    DMD
                        Vegas School of Dental
                        Medicine

                        Rutgers University School of DMD
                        Dental Medicine

                        Columbia University College DDS
                        of Dental Medicine

                        New York University College DDS
                        of Dentistry

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
2022 Ed.  Dental Registration Act 1999                             84

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

   First column      Second column                 Third column
 Country, state or
                     Body granting                    Primary
      territory      qualifications                qualifications

(23) North Carolina  State University of New York DDS
(24) Ohio            at Buffalo School of Dental
                     Medicine
(25) Oklahoma
(26) Oregon          State University of New York DDS
(27) Pennsylvania    at Stony Brook School of
                     Dental Medicine
(28) Puerto Rico
(29) South Carolina  University of North Carolina  DDS
                     Claude A. Adams Jr. and
                     Grace Philips Adams School
                     of Dentistry

                     Case Western Reserve          DMD

                     University School of Dental

                     Medicine

                     Ohio State University College DDS
                     of Dentistry

                     University of Oklahoma        DDS
                     College of Dentistry

                     Oregon Health & Science       DMD
                     University School of
                     Dentistry

                     Temple University Maurice     DMD
                     H. Kornberg School of
                     Dentistry

                     University of Pennsylvania DMD
                     School of Dental Medicine

                     University of Pittsburgh      DMD

                     School of Dental Medicine

                     University of Puerto Rico DMD
                     School of Dental Medicine

                     Medical University of South DMD
                     Carolina College of Dental
                     Medicine

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
85                     Dental Registration Act 1999          2022 Ed.

                     THE SCHEDULE — continued

    First column        Second column                Third column

    Country, state or   Body granting                   Primary
         territory      qualifications               qualifications

    (30) Tennessee      Meharry Medical College      DDS
                        School of Dentistry

                        University of Tennessee      DDS
                        College of Dentistry

    (31) Texas          Texas A&M University         DDS
                        College of Dentistry

                        University of Texas Health   DDS
                        Science Center at Houston
                        School of Dentistry

                        University of Texas Health DDS
                        Science Center at San Antonio
                        School of Dentistry

    (32) Virginia       Virginia Commonwealth        DDS
                        University School of
                        Dentistry

    (33) Washington     University of Washington     DDS
                        School of Dentistry

    (34) Washington, D.C. Howard University College of DDS
                                   Dentistry

    (35) West Virginia  West Virginia University     DDS
                        School of Dentistry

    (36) Wisconsin      Marquette University School DDS
                        of Dentistry

                                                     [S 583/2026 wef 03/09/2026]
                                                                        [S 665/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                 DENTAL REGISTRATION ACT 1999

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                    PART 1
           REGISTRATION OF DENTISTS ORDINANCE

              (CHAPTER 66, 1936 REVISED EDITION)

1. Ordinance 13 of 1924 — Dentists’ Registration Ordinance, 1924

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1145/1924

First Reading         : 30 June 1924

Second Reading        : 15 September 1924

Notice of Amendments  : 15 September 1924

Third Reading         : 6 October 1924

Commencement          : 1 December 1924

2. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 202 (Dentists’ Registration)

Operation             : 1 August 1926

3. Ordinance 16 of 1933 — Registration of Dentists Ordinance, 1933

Bill                  : G.N. No. 790/1933

First Reading         : 1 May 1933

Second Reading        : 31 July 1933

Notice of Amendments  : 31 July 1933

Third Reading         : 31 July 1933

Commencement          : 15 August 1933

4. 1936 Revised Edition — Registration of Dentists Ordinance (Chapter 66)

Operation             : 1 September 1936

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
                         ii

5. Ordinance 6 of 1938 — Registration of Dentists (Amendment)
                                   Ordinance, 1938

Bill                     : G.N. No. 446/1938

First Reading            : 14 February 1938

Second and Third Readings : 25 April 1938

Commencement             : 9 May 1938

                            PART 2
                      DENTISTS ACT
      (CHAPTER 76, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

6. Ordinance 30 of 1948 — Registration of Dentists Ordinance, 1948

Bill                     : G.N. No. S 166/1948

First Reading            : 15 June 1948

Second Reading           : 13 July 1948

Select Committee Report  : Council Paper No. 33 of 1948

Notice of Amendments     : 19 October 1948

Third Reading            : 19 October 1948

Commencement             : 24 October 1949

7. Ordinance 8 of 1952 — Registration of Dentists (Amendment)
                                   Ordinance, 1952

Bill                     : 3/1952

First Reading            : 20 February 1952

Second and Third Readings : 18 March 1952

Commencement             : 27 March 1952

8. Ordinance 8 of 1955 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Miscellaneous
                                   Amendments) Ordinance, 1955

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with item 40 of the Schedule to the
   above Ordinance)

Bill                     : 45/1954

First Reading            : 14 December 1954

Second and Third Readings : 28 January 1955

Commencement             : 11 February 1955 (section 2 read with
                               item 40 of the Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
                      iii

9. 1955 Revised Edition — Registration of Dentists Ordinance
                                    (Chapter 197)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

10. Ordinance 72 of 1959 — Transfer of Powers (No. 2) Ordinance, 1959
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the First Schedule to the
     above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 31/1959

First Reading         : 22 September 1959

Second Reading        : 11 November 1959

Notice of Amendments  : 11 November 1959

Third Reading         : 11 November 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959 (section 2 read
                            with the First Schedule)

11. Ordinance 14 of 1964 — Registration of Dentists (Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1964

Bill                  : 34/1964

First Reading         : 2 November 1964

Second and Third Readings : 19 November 1964

Commencement          : 4 December 1964

12. 1970 Revised Edition — Dentists Registration Act (Chapter 215)

Operation             : 31 July 1971

13. Act 30 of 1971 — Dentists Registration (Amendment) Act, 1971

Bill                  : 16/1971

First Reading         : 19 October 1971

Second and Third Readings : 2 December 1971

Commencement          : 14 July 1972

14. Act 44 of 1975 — Dentists Registration (Amendment) Act, 1975

Bill                  : 47/1975

First Reading         : 11 November 1975

Second and Third Readings : 20 November 1975

Commencement          : 19 March 1976

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
               iv

15. Act 13 of 1980 — Dentists Registration (Amendment) Act, 1980

Bill           : 2/1980

First Reading  : 26 February 1980

Second and Third Readings : 17 March 1980

Commencement   : 9 May 1980

16. Act 5 of 1981 — Statutes of the Republic of Singapore (Miscellaneous
                           Amendments) Act, 1981

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above Act)

Bill           : 1/1981

First Reading  : 17 February 1981

Second and Third Readings : 6 March 1981

Commencement   : 24 April 1981 (section 2 read with the
                     Schedule)

17. G.N. No. S 158/1981 — Dentists Registration Act (Substitution of
                                    Schedule) Notification, 1981

Commencement   : 8 May 1981

18. G.N. No. S 20/1984 — Dentists Registration Act (Substitution of
                                   Schedule) Notification 1984

Commencement   : 1 February 1984

19. 1985 Revised Edition — Dentists Act (Chapter 76)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

Note: The Dentists Registration Act was renamed as the Dentists Act in the
        1985 Revised Edition.

20. G.N. No. S 398/1989 — Dentist Act (Amendment of Schedule)
                                    Notification 1989

Commencement   : 6 October 1989

                                  PART 3
               DENTAL REGISTRATION ACT 1999

                     (2022 REVISED EDITION)

21. Act 24 of 1999 — Dentists Act 1999

Bill           : 17/1999

First Reading  : 4 May 1999

Second and Third Readings : 6 July 1999

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
               v

Commencement   : 15 October 1999

22. 2000 Revised Edition — Dentists Act (Chapter 76)

Operation      : 30 December 2000

23. Act 5 of 2001 — Health Promotion Board Act 2001
     (Amendments made by section 42(1) of the above Act)

Bill           : 2/2001

First Reading  : 12 January 2001

Second and Third Readings : 22 February 2001

Commencement   : 1 April 2001 (section 42(1))

24. Act 42 of 2005 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) Act 2005
     (Amendments made by section 7 read with item (9) of the Fifth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill           : 30/2005

First Reading  : 17 October 2005

Second and Third Readings : 21 November 2005

Commencement   : 1 January 2006 (section 7 read with
                     item (9) of the Fifth Schedule)

25. Act 22 of 2007 — Dentists (Amendment) Act 2007

Bill           : 9/2007

First Reading  : 27 February 2007

Second and Third Readings : 12 April 2007

Commencement   : 1 January 2008

Note: The Dentists Act was renamed as the Dental Registration Act by this
        Act.

26. G.N. No. S 682/2007 — Dental Registration Act (Amendment of
                                    Schedule) Order 2007

Commencement   : 1 January 2008

27. 2009 Revised Edition — Dental Registration Act (Chapter 76)

Operation      : 31 July 2009

28. Act 1 of 2010 — Medical Registration (Amendment) Act 2010
     (Amendments made by section 38 of the above Act)

Bill           : 22/2009

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
                      vi

First Reading         : 19 October 2009

Second and Third Readings : 11 January 2010

Commencement          : 1 December 2010 (section 38)

29. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 58 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2017

First Reading         : 6 November 2017

Second Reading        : 8 January 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 8 January 2018

Third Reading         : 8 January 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (section 58)

30. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 42 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 42 of the Schedule)

31. Act 4 of 2021 — Statute Law Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 15(4) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2020

First Reading         : 3 November 2020

Second and Third Readings : 5 January 2021

Commencement          : 1 March 2021 (section 15(4))

32. Act 20 of 2021 — Dental Registration (Amendment) Act 2021

Bill                  : 16/2021

First Reading         : 5 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 2 August 2021

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
                      vii

Commencement          : 1 January 2022 (except sections 2, 3,
                            4, 5, 11 and 12(1) and (2))

33. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 223(4) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 18/2021

First Reading         : 26 July 2021

Second Reading        : 13 September 2021

Notice of Amendments  : 14 September 2021

Third Reading         : 14 September 2021

Commencement          : 1 April 2022 (section 223(4))

34. G.N. No. S 665/2022 — Dental Registration Act (Amendment of
                                    Schedule) Order 2022

Commencement          : 15 August 2022

35. 2022 Revised Edition — Dental Registration Act 1999

Operation             : 15 September 2022

36. Act 19 of 2025 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2025

Bill                  : 9/2025

First Reading         : 22 September 2025

Second and Third Readings : 15 October 2025

Commencement          : 5 December 2025

37. G.N. No. S 583/2026 — Dental Registration Act 1999 (Amendment of
                                    Schedule) Order 2026

Date of commencement  : 3 September 2026

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
.                                viii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
                 COMPARATIVE TABLE
         DENTAL REGISTRATION ACT 1999

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2022 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

         2022 Ed.                    2009 Ed.
                   3—(3) [Deleted by Act 22 of 2007]
—
3—(3)                 (4)
                      (5)
   (4)                (6)
   (5)             8—(5A)
8—(6)                 (6)
   (7)                (7)
   (8)             11—(4) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
—                     (5)
11—(4)             12—(1A)
12—(2)                (2)
   (3)             14C—(1A)
14C—(2)               (2)
   (3)                (3)
   (4)             17—(7) [Deleted by Act 22 of 2007]
—                     (8)
17—(7)                (9)
   (8)                (10)
   (9)             18 [Repealed by Act 22 of 2007]
—                  19
18                 20
19                 21
20                 21A
21                 21B
22

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
        2022 Ed.  ii         2009 Ed.

23                 21C
24                 21D
25                 21E
26                 21F
27                 21G
28                 21H
29                 22

   (2)                 (1A)
   (3)                 (2)
30                 23
31                 24
32                 25
33                 26
   (2)                 (1A)
   (3)                 (2)
34                 27
35                 28
36                 29
37                 30
38                 31
39                 31A
40                 32
41                 32A
42                 32B
43                 33
44                 34
45                 35
46                 36

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
         2022 Ed.  iii

47                                     2009 Ed.
48                   37
49                   38
50                   39
51                   40
52                   41
53                   42
—                    43
—                    44 [Repealed by Act 22 of 2007]
—                    45 [Repealed by Act 22 of 2007]
—                    46 [Repealed by Act 22 of 2007]
54                   47 [Repealed by Act 22 of 2007]
—                    48
—
                        (4) [Deleted by Act 22 of 2007]
   (4)                  (5) [Deleted by Act 22 of 2007]
55                      (6)
                     49
   (4)                  (3A)
   (5)                  (4)
   (6)                  (5)
   (7)                  (6)
   (8)                  (7)
   (9)                  (8)
   (10)                 (8A)
   (11)                 (9)
   (12)                 (10)
56                   49A
57                   49B
58                   49C

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
        2022 Ed.  iv

59                                    2009 Ed.
60                  49D
61                  49E
62                  49F
63                  49G
64                  49H
65                  49I
—                   49J
—                   50 [Repealed by Act 22 of 2007]
—                   51 [Repealed by Act 22 of 2007]
66                  52 [Repealed by Act 22 of 2007]
67                  53
68                  53A
                    54
   (3)
   (4)                 (2A)
   (5)                 (3)
—                      (4)
69                     (5) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
70                  55
71                  56
72                  57
—                   58
73                  59 [Repealed by Act 22 of 2007]
74                  60
75                  61
76                  61A
77                  61B
78                  61C
                    61D

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
                 2022 Ed.  v
79
[Omitted as spent]                            2009 Ed.
80                          62
[Omitted as spent]          63—(1)
[Omitted as spent]          64

   (4)                          (4)
81                              (5)
[Omitted as spent]              (6)
82                          65—(1)
[Omitted as spent]              (2)
[Omitted as spent]          66
                                (1)
   (1)                          (2)
   (2)                          (3)
   (3)                          (4)
—                           63—(2)
83                          67 [Repealed by Act 4 of 2021]
                            68

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 3/9/2026
