THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
           REPUBLIC POLYTECHNIC ACT 2002

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
                                                                         2020 Ed.

Republic Polytechnic Act 2002

Section                 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
     1.
     2.   Short title
     3.   Interpretation
     4.   Establishment and incorporation of Republic Polytechnic
     5.   Common seal
     5A.  Objects and powers of Polytechnic
          Validation of collection of charge for late payment of fee or
     6.   charge
     7.   Board of Governors and Senate of Polytechnic
     8.   Schools of Polytechnic
     9.   Committees and delegation of powers
     9A.  Officers
   10.    [Repealed]
   11.    Constitution of Polytechnic
   12.    Examinations
   13.    Power to confer diplomas, etc.
   14.    Grants
   15.    Issue of shares, etc.
   16.    Power to borrow
          Application of Societies Act 1966 to Students’ Union
          The Schedule — Constitution of the Republic Polytechnic

An Act to establish the Republic Polytechnic, to provide for its
  functions and powers, and for matters connected therewith.
                                                               [1 August 2002]

Short title
 1. This Act is the Republic Polytechnic Act 2002.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “Board” means the Board of Governors of the Polytechnic;

                                                           1

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
2020 Ed.  Republic Polytechnic Act 2002                            2

“Constitution” means the Constitution of the Polytechnic set out
   in the Schedule;

“Deputy Principal” means a Deputy Principal of the Polytechnic
   appointed under section 9;

“Polytechnic” means the Republic Polytechnic established
   under section 3;

“Principal” means the Principal of the Polytechnic, and includes
   any individual acting in that capacity;

“Senate” means the Senate of the Polytechnic.

                                                                   [5/2018]

Establishment and incorporation of Republic Polytechnic

 3. A Polytechnic called the Republic Polytechnic is established,
which is a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common
seal and is by that name capable of —

       (a) suing and being sued;

       (b) acquiring, owning, holding and developing or disposing of
            property, both movable and immovable; and

       (c) doing and suffering all other acts or things that bodies
            corporate may lawfully do or suffer.

Common seal

 4.—(1) The common seal of the Polytechnic must be kept in such
custody as the Board directs.

 (2) All deeds, documents and other instruments requiring the seal of
the Polytechnic must be sealed with the common seal of the
Polytechnic and the instruments to which the common seal is
affixed must be signed by the Principal or a Deputy Principal and by
another member of the Board.

 (3) All courts and persons acting judicially are to take judicial
notice of the common seal of the Polytechnic affixed to any document
and presume that it was duly affixed.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
3  Republic Polytechnic Act 2002                            2020 Ed.

Objects and powers of Polytechnic

   5.—(1) The objects of the Polytechnic are —

   (a) to provide instruction and training in engineering,
        technology, applied sciences and other subjects of
        learning;

   (b) to aid by research and other means the advancement of
        knowledge and its practical application; and

   (c) to promote the exchange of knowledge and skills with
       business and industry.

   (2) The Polytechnic may —

   (a) provide any facilities for its students that it considers
        desirable;

   (b) institute and make appointments to academic and other
        posts and offices and employ any other staff that the
        Polytechnic considers necessary;

   (c) fix, demand and receive fees and other charges, including
        charges for the late payment of any such fee or charge;

                                                                         [Act 4 of 2008 wef 01/04/2024]

   (d) provide technical and consultancy services to business and
        industry as it considers desirable;

   (e) form or participate in the formation of companies or other
       undertakings having such objects as the Board may
       approve;

   (f) solicit and receive donations and contributions from any
       source or raise funds by all lawful means;

   (g) give donations and contributions to any person or
        organisation; and

   (h) do all things that may be necessary, incidental or conducive
        to the attainment of all or any of its objects.

   (3) In subsection (2)(e), “company” —

   (a) has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the Companies
        Act 1967; and

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
2020 Ed.  Republic Polytechnic Act 2002                            4

(b) includes a foreign company within the meaning of that Act.

                                                                                             [S 461/2020]

Validation of collection of charge for late payment of fee or
charge

 5A. Every amount collected before the date of commencement of
the Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2008 as, or
purportedly as, a charge for the late payment of any fee or charge
referred to in section 5(2)(c) shall be deemed to be and always to have
been validly collected, and no legal proceedings shall lie or be
instituted or maintained in any court of law on account of or in respect
of any such collection.

                                                                                 [Act 4 of 2008 wef 01/04/2024]

Board of Governors and Senate of Polytechnic

 6.—(1) The constitutions, functions, powers and duties of the
Board and the Senate are prescribed by this Act and the Constitution.

 (2) The Board is, subject to the provisions of this Act and the
Constitution, the supreme governing body of the Polytechnic and
must administer the property and manage the affairs of the
Polytechnic.

 (3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018 and the Constitution and to the financial
control of the Board, the Senate has the regulation of all matters
relating to education in the Polytechnic.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (4) No act or resolution of the Board or the Senate is invalid by
reason only of any vacancy in, or any defect in the qualification or
appointment of any member of, the Board or the Senate.

Schools of Polytechnic

 7.—(1) There are to be such Schools as may be constituted by the
Board on the recommendation of the Senate.

 (2) There is to be a head of each School with such powers as may be
conferred by the Board.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
5  Republic Polytechnic Act 2002                            2020 Ed.

 (3) The Board may, on the recommendation of the Senate, form,
dissolve or reform any School and any department, centre, unit and
other subdivisions of any School as it may consider desirable.

Committees and delegation of powers

 8.—(1) The Board, the Senate and the Principal may establish any
committees that they think fit.

 (2) Unless otherwise expressly provided, any committee may
consist partly of persons who are not members of the Board or the
Senate or officers of the Polytechnic, as the case may be.

 (3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018 and the Constitution, the Board, the Senate
and the Principal may, with or without restrictions or conditions as
they think fit, delegate any of their powers and duties to any
committee.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Officers

 9.—(1) The Principal, every Deputy Principal and other officers of
the Polytechnic must be appointed by the Board in accordance with
the Constitution.

 (2) The academic staff of the Polytechnic are the heads of the
Schools and any other persons designated as members of the
academic staff by the Constitution and they are to be appointed by
the Board on the recommendation of the Principal.

 (3) The powers and duties of the officers and members of the
academic staff, the periods and conditions for and upon which they
hold office and their emoluments are as prescribed by this Act, the
Constitution and the terms of their respective appointments.

 (4) In addition to the powers and duties that are assigned under
subsection (3), the Board may assign to any officer, and in the case of
any member of the academic staff on the recommendation of the
Principal, such further powers and duties as the Board thinks fit.

 9A. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
2020 Ed.  Republic Polytechnic Act 2002                            6

Constitution of Polytechnic

 10.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Polytechnic is
governed by the provisions of the Constitution set out in
the Schedule.

 (2) The Minister may, after consulting the Board, amend the
Constitution by order in the Gazette.

 (3) Regulations made under the Constitution are not subsidiary
legislation.

Examinations

 11. All examinations held by the Polytechnic must be conducted in
the manner prescribed by the Constitution and any regulations made
under the Constitution.

Power to confer diplomas, etc.

 12. The Polytechnic has power —

       (a) to award diplomas, certificates and any other academic
            distinctions specified in regulations made under the
            Constitution; and

       (b) to provide access to such educational activities and
            programmes for persons who are not registered students
            as the Polytechnic may determine, and to award diplomas,
            certificates and other academic distinctions to those
            persons.

Grants

 13.—(1) The Minister must pay to the Polytechnic such moneys as
may be provided by Parliament as grants to the Polytechnic.

 (2) All moneys paid to the Polytechnic under subsection (1) may be
applied or expended by the Polytechnic for the attainment of all or
any of the objects of the Polytechnic.

Issue of shares, etc.

 14. As a consequence of the vesting of any property, rights or
liabilities of the Government in the Polytechnic under this Act, or of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
7  Republic Polytechnic Act 2002                            2020 Ed.

any capital injection or other investment by the Government in the
Polytechnic in accordance with any written law, the Polytechnic must
issue such shares or other securities to the Minister for Finance as that
Minister may direct.

Power to borrow

 15. For the attainment of all or any of its objects under this Act, the
Polytechnic may raise loans from the Government or, with the
approval of the Minister for Finance, raise loans from banks or other
financial institutions (whether in Singapore or elsewhere) by —

       (a) mortgage, overdraft or otherwise;

       (b) charge, whether legal or equitable, on any property vested
            in the Polytechnic or on any other revenue receivable by
            the Polytechnic under this Act or any other written law; or

       (c) the creation and issue of debentures or bonds.

Application of Societies Act 1966 to Students’ Union

 16.—(1) Despite anything to the contrary in the Societies Act 1966,
the provisions of that Act apply to the Republic Polytechnic Students’
Union and its constituent bodies constituted by regulations made
under the Constitution.

 (2) The Minister charged with the responsibility for societies may,
by order in the Gazette, exempt the Republic Polytechnic Students’
Union and any of its constituent bodies from all or any of the
provisions of the Societies Act 1966 subject to any conditions
specified in the order.

                                                                               [21

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
2020 Ed.  Republic Polytechnic Act 2002                                8

          THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                        Sections 2 and 10(1)

          CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC POLYTECHNIC
                                        PART 1

                                   PRELIMINARY

Interpretation
 1.—(1) In this Constitution, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Act” means the Republic Polytechnic Act 2002;
      “Board” means the Board of Governors of the Polytechnic;

“Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Board;
“Constitution” means the Constitution of the Polytechnic;
“Deputy Principal” means a Deputy Principal of the Polytechnic;
“Polytechnic” means the Republic Polytechnic;
“Principal” means the Principal of the Polytechnic;

“registered student” means a student who is registered for a course or subject
   at the Polytechnic, leading to the award of a diploma, certificate or other
   academic distinction of the Polytechnic;

    “regulations” means regulations made under this Constitution;

    “Schools” means such Schools of the Polytechnic as may be constituted by
        the Board on the recommendation of the Senate;

    “Senate” means the Senate of the Polytechnic.

(2) In this Constitution —

       (a) a reference to a specified section is a reference to that section of this
            Constitution;

(b) a reference to a specified subsection is a reference to that subsection of
     the section in which the reference occurs; and

(c) a reference to a specified paragraph is a reference to that paragraph of
    the subsection in which the reference occurs.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
9  Republic Polytechnic Act 2002                                  2020 Ed.

   THE SCHEDULE — continued

   PART 2

   OFFICERS OF POLYTECHNIC

Appointment, powers and duties of Principal and Deputy Principal

 2.—(1) The Principal is appointed by the Board on such terms and conditions as
the Board may determine.

 (2) The appointment, removal, discipline and promotion of the Principal must be
in accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

 (3) The Principal is the chief executive and academic officer of the Polytechnic
and is responsible to the Board for —

   (a) the proper administration and the academic management of the
        Polytechnic in accordance with the policies determined by the Board;

   (b) the proper enforcement of regulations; and

   (c) the welfare and discipline of the staff and students of the Polytechnic.

 (4) For the purpose of giving effect to subsection (3), the Principal has such
powers as are necessary or proper for that purpose.

 (5) The Principal is entitled to be present and speak at any meeting of any
committee of the Polytechnic, but is not entitled to vote at the meeting unless the
Principal is a member of the committee.

 (6) There are to be one or more Deputy Principals who are appointed by the
Board on such terms and conditions as the Board may determine.

 (7) A Deputy Principal must perform such duties as may be assigned to him or
her by the Principal (or by the Board if the Principal is unable to so assign).

Secretary
 3.—(1) The Secretary of the Board is an officer of the Polytechnic and is
appointed by the Board on such terms and conditions as the Board may determine.
 (2) The Secretary of the Board must —

        (a) attend all meetings of the Board unless excused by the Chairperson;
        (b) maintain proper records of the meetings; and
        (c) carry out any other duties assigned to him or her by the Board.
 (3) In the absence of the Secretary of the Board, the Chairperson may appoint a
suitable person to act as secretary for a particular meeting.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
2020 Ed.  Republic Polytechnic Act 2002                            10

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

 (4) The Secretary of the Board is not, unless he or she is a member of the Board
appointed to serve in that capacity, entitled to vote on any question before the
Board.

Other officers and employees, etc.

 4. The Board may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018, appoint
and employ, on such terms and conditions as it may determine, such other officers,
employees, consultants and agents as may be necessary for the effective
performance of its functions.

                                           PART 3

                     BOARD OF GOVERNORS AND SENATE

Board of Governors

 5.—(1) The Board of Governors consists of the following members:

        (a) a Chairperson;

        (b) a Deputy Chairperson;

        (c) the Principal;

        (d) such other persons, being not less than 9 and not more than 15, as may
             be determined by the Minister.

 (2) Every member of the Board, except the Principal, is appointed by the
Minister and, unless the Minister otherwise directs, holds office for a period of
3 years from the date of the appointment and is eligible for re‑appointment.

Powers of Board

 6.—(1) The Board must administer the affairs of the Polytechnic other than
those vested by the Act or this Constitution in some other authority of the
Polytechnic or in an officer.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Board, subject to the provisions of the
Act and this Constitution, has power —

        (a) to administer and manage the finances, accounts, investments,
             property, business, and all affairs of the Polytechnic, and for that
             purpose to appoint bankers, counsel, solicitors and such officers or
             agents as it may be expedient to appoint;

        (b) invest the moneys of the Polytechnic in accordance with the standard
             investment power of statutory bodies as defined in section 33A of the
             Interpretation Act 1965;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
11  Republic Polytechnic Act 2002                              2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

    (c) to purchase, grant, sell, convey, assign, surrender, and yield up,
        exchange, partition, mortgage, demise, re‑assign, transfer, and accept
        leases of real and personal property on behalf of the Polytechnic;

    (d) to provide the buildings, premises, furniture, apparatus and other
         means needed for the Polytechnic;

    (e) to borrow money on behalf of the Polytechnic and for that purpose to
        mortgage all or any part of the property of the Polytechnic, whether
        real or personal, or give such other security, whether upon such real or
        personal property or otherwise, as it thinks fit;

    (f) to enter into, vary, carry out and cancel contracts on behalf of the
        Polytechnic;

    (g) to publish books and other matters on behalf of the Polytechnic;

    (h) in consultation with the Senate, to review the instruction and teaching
         at the Polytechnic;

    (i) to cooperate with other polytechnics and authorities for the regulation
        and conduct of examinations, for the examination and inspection of
        schools and other academic institutions, for the extension of
        Polytechnic teaching and for other purposes;

    (j) to propose to the Minister additions to, or the amendment or repeal of
        any of the provisions of, this Constitution;

    (k) to prescribe fees and other charges, including charges for the late
        payment of any such fee or charge;

                                                                          [Act 4 of 2008 wef 01/04/2024]

    (l) to appoint officers and other employees and to determine their duties
        and to fix their remuneration and the terms and conditions of their
        appointments;

    (m) to appoint committees within or outside Singapore to select candidates
         for any office to which the Board may appoint;

    (n) to delegate any of its powers to any member of the Board or to any
         committee of the Board or to any officer or other employee of the
         Polytechnic; and

    (o) to do all such other acts and things as may be required to give effect to
         the powers conferred on the Board by the Act or this Constitution.

 (3) The Board may by regulations provide for any of the following matters or
purposes:

    (a) the administration of the affairs of the Polytechnic;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
2020 Ed.  Republic Polytechnic Act 2002                             12

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

(b) the appointment, promotion, conduct, disciplinary control, dismissal
     and termination of service of the officers and other employees of the
     Polytechnic;

(c) the welfare, discipline, suspension and expulsion of students;

(d) the form of contracts;

(e) the publications of the Polytechnic;

(f) fees and other charges, including charges for the late payment of any
     such fee or charge;

                                                                      [Act 4 of 2008 wef 01/04/2024]

(g) the prescribing of anything which is by the Act or this Constitution
     required to be prescribed by regulations made by the Board;

(h) generally all matters which by the Act or this Constitution the Board is
     empowered to regulate.

 (4) All such regulations come into operation on the day on which they are made
unless otherwise provided by the Board.

Vacation of office of member of Board

 7.—(1) The Minister may revoke the appointment of a member of the Board,
except that of the Principal, if the member becomes in the opinion of the Minister
unfit to continue in office or incapable of performing the member’s duties.

 (2) A member of the Board, except the Principal, may resign from his or her
appointment by giving written notice to the Minister.

Filling of vacancy in office of member of Board

 8. If the office of a member of the Board, other than that of the Principal, is
vacant, the Minister may appoint any person to fill the vacancy and the person
must be appointed for the remainder of the term of the person’s predecessor.

Meetings of Board

 9.—(1) The Chairperson must summon meetings of the Board as often as may
be required.

 (2) The quorum at every meeting of the Board is 6 members.

 (3) Every decision at a meeting of the Board is to be adopted by a simple
majority of the votes of the members present and voting except that, in the case of
an equality of votes, the Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the Deputy
Chairperson has a casting vote.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
13  Republic Polytechnic Act 2002                            2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

 (4) The Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the Deputy Chairperson presides at
a meeting of the Board.

 (5) In the absence of the Chairperson and the Deputy Chairperson at a meeting
of the Board, such member as the members present may elect presides at the
meeting.

 (6) The Board may grant leave of absence from a meeting of the Board to a
member of the Board.

 (7) The Board is not precluded from holding a meeting or acting in any matter
merely by reason of any vacancy in its membership.

 (8) Subject to the provisions of this Constitution and the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018, the Board may make standing orders to regulate its
own procedure.

Senate

 10.—(1) The Senate consists of —

        (a) the Principal, who is the chairperson of the Senate;

        (b) the heads of the Schools;

        (c) such number of officers of the Polytechnic as may be appointed by the
             Board; and

        (d) such number of academic staff as may be determined by the Board and
             as may be elected by all the full-time academic staff.

 (2) The Senate must meet at least twice in each semester of every academic year
and such other times as may be necessary.

 (3) The quorum at every meeting of the Senate is one quarter of the total number
of members of the Senate.

 (4) The chairperson of the Senate may require any officer or other employee of
the Polytechnic to attend a meeting of the Senate.

Powers of Senate

 11. Subject to the provisions of the Act and this Constitution and to the
availability of funds provided by the Board, the Senate has power —

        (a) to provide courses of study for the diplomas, certificates and other
             awards by the Polytechnic and any other courses of study as may be
             thought desirable;

        (b) to direct and regulate instruction and education in the Polytechnic;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
2020 Ed.  Republic Polytechnic Act 2002                            14

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

(c) to stimulate the advancement of knowledge by research and
    publications;

(d) to direct the manner in which examinations may be conducted;

(e) to determine what examinations and courses of study in other
    polytechnics or places of learning are deemed equivalent to
    examinations and courses of study in the Polytechnic;

          (f) to advise the Board on the provision of facilities for educational and
              other academic matters;

(g) to decide in accordance with this Constitution and the regulations
     persons who are qualified for the award of diplomas, certificates and
     other academic distinctions;

(h) to organise the Schools;

          (i) to fix the time, mode and conditions of competition for, and to award,
              fellowships, scholarships and other educational endowments and
              prizes in accordance with the terms thereof;

          (j) to require any student on academic grounds to terminate his or her
              studies at the Polytechnic;

(k) to provide access to educational activities and programmes for persons
    who are not registered students;

          (l) to advise the Board on any matter which may be referred to the Senate
              by the Board;

(m) to delegate any of its powers to any member of the Senate or any
     committee of the Senate or to any officer of the Polytechnic; and

(n) to do all such other acts and things as may be required to give effect to
     the powers conferred on the Senate by the Act and this Constitution.

Regulations made by Senate
 12.—(1) The Senate may by regulations provide for any of the following matters
or purposes:

        (a) the admission and registration of students;
        (b) the conditions for the award of diplomas, certificates and other

             academic distinctions;
        (c) courses of study and examinations;
        (d) academic dress;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
15  Republic Polytechnic Act 2002                            2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

    (e) the award of scholarships and other educational endowments and
        prizes;

    (f) the conduct of examinations;

    (g) the prescribing of anything which is by the Act or this Constitution
         required to be prescribed by regulations made by the Senate;

    (h) the prescribing of conditions under which persons may be exempted
         from the provisions of any regulations made by the Senate;

    (i) generally all matters which by the Act or this Constitution the Senate is
        empowered to regulate.

 (2) All such regulations must be reported to the Board and come into operation
not earlier than one semester after the day on which they are made, unless
otherwise approved by the Board.

                                           PART 4
                                     EXAMINATIONS
Examinations
 13. Examinations for diplomas, certificates and other awards must be conducted
in accordance with regulations made by the Senate.

                                           PART 5
                               FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
Financial year
 14. The financial year of the Polytechnic begins on 1 April of each year and ends
on 31 March of the succeeding year.

Preparation of estimates
 15. It is the duty of such officers of the Polytechnic as may be directed by the
Board to prepare for the consideration of the Board the estimates of income and
expenditure of the Polytechnic for each financial year.

Estimates
 16. The annual and supplementary estimates must be prepared in such form and
must contain such information as the Board may direct.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
2020 Ed.  Republic Polytechnic Act 2002                            16

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

Power of Board to accept gifts

 17.—(1) The Board may on behalf of the Polytechnic accept by way of grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, property and moneys in aid of the
finances of the Polytechnic on any conditions that it may determine.

 (2) Records must be kept of all donations to the Polytechnic including the names
of donors and any special conditions on which any donation may have been given.

Property, etc., donated for specific purposes to be separately accounted for

 18. All property, moneys or funds donated for any specific purpose must be
applied and administered in accordance with the purpose for which they may have
been donated and must be separately accounted for.

                                           PART 6

                                    STUDENT BODIES

Republic Polytechnic Students’ Union

 19.—(1) There is a students’ association called the Republic Polytechnic
Students’ Union which is constituted by regulations made by the Board and
consists of such constituent bodies as may be prescribed by those regulations.

 (2) The constitution, membership, functions and other matters relating to the
Republic Polytechnic Students’ Union and each of its constituent bodies must be
so prescribed.

 (3) The Polytechnic may impose and collect from the students or any class of
students such fees as it may determine for the benefit of the Republic Polytechnic
Students’ Union and its constituent bodies.

 (4) The fees collected under subsection (3) may be applied in any manner that
the Polytechnic thinks fit for the purposes of the Republic Polytechnic Students’
Union and its constituent bodies.

                                                                                                 [45/2004; 5/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
                   LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
           REPUBLIC POLYTECHNIC ACT 2002

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 14 of 2002 — Republic Polytechnic Act 2002

Bill                  : 12/2002

First Reading         : 3 May 2002

Second and Third Readings : 8 July 2002

Commencement          : 1 August 2002

2. 2003 Revised Edition — Republic Polytechnic Act (Chapter 270)

Operation             : 31 July 2003

3. Act 45 of 2004 — Trustees (Amendment) Act 2004
   (Amendments made by section 25(4) read with item (41) of the Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill                  : 43/2004

First Reading         : 21 September 2004

Second and Third Readings : 19 October 2004

Commencement          : 15 December 2004 (section 25(4) read
                            with item (41) of the Schedule)

4. Act 16 of 2016 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2016
   (Amendments made by section 36 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 15/2016

First Reading         : 14 April 2016

Second and Third Readings : 9 May 2016

Commencement          : 10 June 2016 (section 36)

5. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
   (Amendments made by section 95 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2017

First Reading         : 6 November 2017

Second Reading        : 8 January 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 8 January 2018

Third Reading         : 8 January 2018

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
               ii

Commencement   : 1 April 2018 (section 95)

6. G.N. No. S 461/2020 — Variable Capital Companies (Consequential
                                   Amendments to Other Acts) Order 2020

Commencement   : 15 June 2020

7. 2020 Revised Edition — Republic Polytechnic Act 2002

Operation      : 31 December 2021

8. Act 4 of 2008 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2008

Bill           : 49/2007

First Reading  : 12 November 2007

Second and Third Readings : 22 January 2008

Commencement   : 1 April 2024

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
         COMPARATIVE TABLE
REPUBLIC POLYTECHNIC ACT 2002

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    2003 Ed.
—                          16 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
—                          17 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
—                          18 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
—                          19 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
—                          20 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
16                         21

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2024
