        FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES ACT 2013

                               (No. 13 of 2013)

                           ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                                            PART I
                                      PRELIMINARY
Section
     1. Short title and commencement
     2. Interpretation

                                            PART II
                  INFORMATION GATHERING POWERS OVER

                        FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES
     3. Provision of information to Authority

                                           PART III
           DESIGNATION OF FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES
     4. Power of Authority to designate financial holding companies
     5. Withdrawal of designation of financial holding company
     6. Prohibition on holding out as designated financial holding
            company
     7. Use of financial holding company name, etc.
     8. Activities of designated financial holding company
     9. Annual levy
   10. Amendment of designated financial holding company’s
            constitution

                                           PART IV
             CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDINGS AND CONTROL OF

               DESIGNATED FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANY
   11. Application and interpretation of this Part
   12. Mergers involving designated financial holding company with

            bank subsidiary

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2        NO. 13 OF 2013

Section  Control of substantial shareholdings of designated financial
   13.   holding company with bank subsidiary
   14.   Control of shareholdings and voting power of designated
   15.   financial holding company with bank subsidiary
   16.   Approval of applications in case of designated financial holding
   17.   company with bank subsidiary
   18.   Power to exempt and make further transitional provisions
   19.   Objection to existing control of designated financial holding
   20.   company with bank subsidiary
   21.   Power to make directions in relation to designated financial
   22.   holding company with bank subsidiary
   23.   Mergers involving designated financial holding company
   24.   without bank subsidiary
   25.   Control of substantial shareholdings of designated financial
   26.   holding company without bank subsidiary
   27.   Control of shareholdings and voting power of designated
         financial holding company without bank subsidiary
         Approval of applications in case of designated financial holding
         company without bank subsidiary
         Objection to existing control of designated financial holding
         company without bank subsidiary
         Power to make directions in relation to designated financial
         holding company without bank subsidiary
         Appeals
         Offences, penalties and defences under this Part
         Power of Authority to obtain information

                                           PART V

                 EXPOSURES AND LIMITS ON INVESTMENTS

   28. Exposures
   29. Disclosure of interests by directors
   30. Limit on equity investments
   31. Investments in companies
   32. Immovable property
   33. Power of Authority to secure compliance with provisions of this

            Part

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
         FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                                    3

         PART VI

         MINIMUM ASSET AND CAPITAL REQUIREMENT

Section  Minimum liquid assets
         Minimum capital requirements
   34.   Capital adequacy requirements
   35.   Leverage ratio requirement
   36.   Power of Authority to secure compliance with any provision in
   37.   this Part
   38.

                                       PART VII

             AUDIT, INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS

39. Annual account and audit
40. Inspection of designated financial holding companies and other

         companies within FHC group
41. Special investigation of designated financial holding companies
42. Provisions supplementary to sections 40 and 41
43. Inspection in Singapore by foreign supervisory authority
44. Confidentiality of inspection and investigation reports

                                      PART VIII

               POWERS OF CONTROL OVER DESIGNATED
                     FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES

45. Interpretation of this Part
46. Information of insolvency, etc.
47. Action by Authority if designated financial holding company is

         unable to meet obligations, etc.
48. Effect of assumption of control under section 47
49. Duration of control
50. Responsibilities of officers, member, etc., of designated

         financial holding company
51. Remuneration and expenses of Authority and others in certain

         cases
52. Winding up where designated financial holding company is

         co‑operative society

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
4        NO. 13 OF 2013

         PART IX

         ASSISTANCE TO FOREIGN REGULATORY AUTHORITIES

Section  Interpretation of this Part
         Application of this Part
   53.   Conditions for provision of assistance
   53A.  Other factors to consider for provision of assistance
   54.   Assistance that may be rendered
   55.   Offences under this Part
   56.   Immunities
   57.
   58.

                                           PART X

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   59. Regulations
   60. Notices to designated financial holding company
   61. Appointment of assistants
   62. Disqualification of directors and executive officers
   63. Appointment and removal of chief executive and other persons
   64. Offences by directors and executive officers of designated

            financial holding companies and false or misleading
            information, etc.
   65. Offences by directors, employees and agents
   66. Composition of offences
   67. General penalty
   68. Jurisdiction of court
   69. Consent of Public Prosecutor
   70. Recovery of fees, expenses, etc.
   71. Operation of this Act not to affect Companies Act
   72. Service of documents, etc.
   73. Electronic service
   74. General powers of exemption
   75. Opportunity to be heard
   76. Amendment of Schedule
   77. Transitional provision
   78. Consequential amendments to Banking Act
   79. Consequential amendment to Monetary Authority of Singapore
            Act
            The Schedule — Definitions of terms in sections 28(6),

                                  29(8) and 34(11)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES  5

An Act to regulate financial holding companies and to make
  consequential amendments to certain other written laws.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
6  NO. 13 OF 2013

                                     PART I

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act may be cited as the Financial Holding Companies Act
2013 and shall come into operation on such date as the Minister may,
by notification in the Gazette, appoint.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Accounting Standards” has the same meaning as in section 4(1)
         of the Companies Act (Cap. 50);

      “activity” means any activity whether carried out as or as part of
         a business or otherwise;

      “agreement” means an agreement whether formal or informal
         and whether express or implied;

      “Authority” means the Monetary Authority of Singapore
         established under section 3 of the Monetary Authority of
         Singapore Act (Cap. 186);

      “bank” has the same meaning as in section 2(1) of the Banking
         Act (Cap. 19);

      “bank holiday” means a day declared by the Authority to be a
         bank holiday under section 60(1) of the Banking Act;

      “book” includes any record, register, document or other record
         of information and any account or accounting record,
         however compiled, recorded or stored, whether in written
         or printed form or on microfilm or by electronic process or
         otherwise;

      “business day” means any calendar day other than a Saturday,
         Sunday, public holiday or bank holiday;

      “capital funds” means the amount determined by adding the
         designated financial holding company’s paid-up capital
         (excluding any amount represented by treasury shares) to
         its published reserves (excluding such reserves as the

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              7

   Authority may specify by notice in writing to the designated
   financial holding company), and then deducting therefrom
   any loss appearing in the accounts of the designated financial
   holding company;

“chief executive”, in relation to a designated financial holding
   company, means any person, by whatever name described,
   who —

        (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
             arrangement with, the designated financial holding
             company; and

        (b) is principally responsible for the management and
             conduct of the activities of the FHC group;

“company” means any company defined in any written law for
   the time being in force relating to companies, any company
   formed in pursuance of any Royal Charter or Letters Patent,
   and any company incorporated or registered under any
   written law in force in Singapore, and includes any body
   corporate or unincorporate, whether incorporated, formed or
   established in or outside Singapore;

“co-operative society” means a co-operative society registered
   under the Co-operative Societies Act (Cap. 62);

“corporation” —

        (a) has the same meaning as in section 4(1) of the
             Companies Act; but

        (b) includes a co-operative society;

“credit facility” means —

        (a) the granting by a designated financial holding
             company of advances, loans, guarantees,
             indemnities and other facilities to a person whereby
             the person has access to funds or financial
             guarantees; or

        (b) the incurring by a designated financial holding
             company of other liabilities on behalf of any person,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
8  NO. 13 OF 2013

      but does not include the purchase by the designated financial
      holding company of any debt instrument;

   “designated financial holding company” means a financial
      holding company designated under section 4;

   “designation date”, in relation to a financial holding company,
      means the date on which the financial holding company
      becomes designated under section 4;

   “director” includes any person occupying the position of
      director of a corporation by whatever name described and
      includes a person in accordance with whose directions or
      instructions the directors of a corporation are accustomed to
      act and an alternate or substitute director;

   “employee” includes an individual seconded or temporarily
      transferred from another employer;

   “executive officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any
      person, by whatever name described, who —

           (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
                arrangement with, the corporation; and

           (b) is concerned with or takes part in the management of
                the corporation on a day-to-day basis;

   “FHC group”, in relation to a financial holding company, means
      the financial holding company, its subsidiaries and any other
      company or entity treated as part of the financial holding
      company’s group of companies according to Accounting
      Standards;

   “financial holding company” means a holding company —

           (a) which has at least one subsidiary that is a bank
                incorporated in Singapore or a licensed insurer
                incorporated, formed or established in Singapore;
                and

           (b) which subsidiary that is a financial institution
                accounts, or which subsidiaries that are financial
                institutions in the aggregate account, for 50% or more

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              9

             of the assets, capital, liabilities or revenue, of the
             FHC group of the holding company;

“financial institution” means any holding company or any
   company whose business the conduct of which is regulated or
   authorised, or subject to oversight, by the Authority under
   any written law or, if carried on in Singapore, would be
   regulated or authorised, or subject to oversight, by the
   Authority under any written law;

“holding company” has the same meaning as in section 5 of the
   Companies Act except that any reference to “corporation” in
   that section shall be construed as if it did not exclude a
   co‑operative society;

“licensed insurer” means an insurer licensed under section 8 of
   the Insurance Act (Cap. 142);

“limited liability partnership” has the same meaning as in
   section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships Act
   (Cap. 163A);

“officer”, in relation to a corporation, includes —

        (a) a director, a secretary or an employee of the
             corporation;

        (b) a receiver or manager of any part of the undertaking
             of the corporation appointed under a power contained
             in any instrument; and

        (c) the liquidator of the corporation appointed in a
             voluntary winding up;

“partner” or “manager”, in relation to a limited liability
   partnership, have the respective meanings assigned to them
   in section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships Act;

“person” includes a corporation;

“profit and loss account” has the same meaning as in section 4(1)
   of the Companies Act;

“published reserve”, in relation to a designated financial holding
   company, means reserves which appear in the accounts of the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
10  NO. 13 OF 2013

         designated financial holding company which are duly audited
         by the auditor of the designated financial holding company;

      “related corporation”, in relation to a corporation, means a
         corporation that is deemed to be related to the first‑mentioned
         corporation under section 6 of the Companies Act, except
         that any reference to “corporation” in that section shall be
         construed as if it did not exclude a co‑operative society;

      “share” has the same meaning as in section 4(1) of the
         Companies Act and includes an interest in a share;

      “subsidiary”, in relation to a financial holding company, has the
         same meaning as in section 5 of the Companies Act, except
         that any reference to “corporation” in that section shall be
         construed as if it did not exclude a co-operative society;

      “substantial shareholder” has the same meaning as in section 81
         of the Companies Act;

      “total number of issued shares”, in relation to a company, does
         not include treasury shares;

      “treasury share” has the same meaning as in section 4(1) of the
         Companies Act.

 (2) Without prejudice to any other meaning which the word
“insolvent” may have, a designated financial holding company
shall, for the purposes of this Act, be deemed to be insolvent if either
it has ceased to pay its debts in the ordinary course of business or is
unable to pay its debts as they become due.

                                    PART II

          INFORMATION GATHERING POWERS OVER
                 FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES

Provision of information to Authority

 3.—(1) The Authority may, by notice in writing, require any
financial holding company to furnish to the Authority such
information or statement at such time and in such manner as the
Authority may specify if, in the opinion of the Authority, it requires

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              11

that information or statement for the proper discharge of its functions
under this Act.

 (2) Any financial holding company to whom a notice is issued
under subsection (1) shall comply with the notice.

 (3) The Authority may require any information or statement
submitted to it under subsection (1) to be accompanied by a
certificate from the following auditors stating whether, in the
opinion of the auditor, the information or statement is correct or
reasonable:

       (a) where a designated financial holding company furnishes
            the information or statement —

               (i) the auditor appointed by the designated financial
                   holding company under section 39(1); or

              (ii) any other auditor appointed by the Authority under
                   section 39(3); and

       (b) in all other cases, an auditor appointed by the financial
            holding company.

 (4) Except as provided in subsection (5), any information or
statement received from a financial holding company under this
section shall be treated as secret by the Authority.

 (5) The Authority may disclose any information or statement
received from a financial holding company under this section if —

       (a) the information or statement is in the public domain;

       (b) the information or statement is disclosed in such a manner
            that the financial holding company’s identity cannot be
            ascertained;

       (c) the financial holding company, or the person from whom
            the financial holding company had obtained the
            information or statement, consents to the disclosure;

       (d) the person to whom the information or statement relates
            consents to the disclosure;

       (e) the disclosure of the information or statement is necessary
            for the performance of any principal object or function, or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
12  NO. 13 OF 2013

            the exercise of any power, of the Authority under this Act
            or any other written law; or

        (f) the disclosure of the information or statement is pursuant to
            any requirement under any written law or order of court in
            Singapore.

 (6) Nothing in this section shall prevent the Authority from
preparing and publishing consolidated statements aggregating such
information or statement as may be furnished in compliance with any
notice under subsection (1).

 (7) Any financial holding company which fails or neglects to
furnish any information or statement required by the Authority under
this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every
day or part thereof during which the offence continues after
conviction.

                                   PART III

    DESIGNATION OF FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES

Power of Authority to designate financial holding companies

 4.—(1) The Authority may, by order published in the Gazette,
designate a financial holding company as a designated financial
holding company if it is —

       (a) an ultimate financial holding company incorporated,
            formed or established in Singapore; or

       (b) an intermediate financial holding company incorporated,
            formed or established in Singapore, and the operations of
            any bank incorporated in Singapore, or any licensed
            insurer incorporated, formed or established in Singapore,
            that is its subsidiary is considered by the Authority —

               (i) to be significant to the FHC group of the
                   intermediate financial holding company; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              13

              (ii) to affect the stability of, or public confidence in, the
                   financial system in Singapore.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(b), where an intermediate
financial holding company is a part of the FHC group of an ultimate
financial holding company that is incorporated, formed or established
outside Singapore, the Authority may, in deciding whether to
designate the intermediate financial holding company as a
designated financial holding company, consider the extent to which
the foreign supervisory authority supervises the FHC group of the
ultimate financial holding company.

 (3) Any order made under subsection (1) shall identify the
designated financial holding company and shall continue to have
effect until it is withdrawn by the Authority.

 (4) A financial holding company which is aggrieved by a decision
of the Authority to designate the financial holding company as a
designated financial holding company may, within 30 days after the
order is published in the Gazette, appeal in writing to the Minister
whose decision shall be final.

 (5) Notwithstanding the lodging of an appeal under subsection (4),
the designation by the Authority under this section shall continue to
have effect pending the decision of the Minister.

 (6) The Minister may, when deciding an appeal under
subsection (4), confirm or reverse the designation of the financial
holding company as a designated financial holding company, and a
decision to reverse the designation shall have effect from the date of
the decision of the Minister.

 (7) In this section —

      “foreign supervisory authority” means the supervisory authority
         which is responsible, under the laws of the country or
         territory where the ultimate financial holding company
         referred to in subsection (2) is incorporated, formed or
         established, for —

              (a) supervising the ultimate financial holding company;
                   and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
14  NO. 13 OF 2013

              (b) exercising consolidated supervision over the ultimate
                   financial holding company and its FHC group;

      “intermediate financial holding company” means a financial
         holding company that is not an ultimate holding company;

      “ultimate financial holding company” means a financial holding
         company that is an ultimate holding company;

      “ultimate holding company” has the same meaning as in
         section 5A of the Companies Act (Cap. 50), except that
         any reference to “corporation” in that section shall be
         construed as if it did not exclude a co‑operative society.

Withdrawal of designation of financial holding company

 5. The Authority may, by order published in the Gazette, withdraw
the designation of any designated financial holding company at any
time if the Authority is of the opinion that the considerations in
section 4(1) and (2) are no longer valid or satisfied.

Prohibition on holding out as designated financial holding
company

 6.—(1) No person shall hold itself out as a designated financial
holding company if it is not designated by the Authority under
section 4.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part thereof during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Use of financial holding company name, etc.

 7.—(1) No person, other than an excepted person, shall, without the
prior approval of the Authority, in the course of any profession,
vocation, trade or business, use any name, logo or trade mark in a
manner which indicates or represents that the person or his trade or
business is related to or associated with a designated financial holding
company.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              15

 (2) A designated financial holding company shall not cause or
knowingly permit any person (other than an excepted person) to use
its name, logo or trade mark in the course of the person’s profession,
vocation, trade or business without the prior approval of the
Authority.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
            further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or part
            thereof during which the offence continues after
            conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $25,000 for every day or part thereof during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

 (4) In subsections (1) and (2), “excepted person” means —

       (a) a financial institution that is a related corporation of the
            designated financial holding company;

       (b) any officer or agent of the designated financial holding
            company or any of its subsidiaries which is a financial
            institution, in the conduct of any duty or function in or for
            the designated financial holding company or the
            subsidiary, as the case may be;

       (c) any person which, pursuant to any agreement or
            arrangement with the designated financial holding
            company or any of the financial institutions within the
            FHC group, carries on any business the conduct of which is
            regulated or authorised, or subject to oversight, by the
            Authority or, if carried on in Singapore, would be regulated
            or authorised, or subject to oversight, by the Authority
            under any written law;

       (d) any person which, pursuant to any agreement or
            arrangement with the designated financial holding
            company or any of the financial institutions within the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
16  NO. 13 OF 2013

            FHC group, carries on any business that is incidental to the
            business of any of the financial institutions within the FHC
            group;

       (e) any person which, pursuant to any agreement or
            arrangement with a bank which is a subsidiary of the
            designated financial holding company, carries on any
            business that is prescribed under section 30(1)(d) of the
            Banking Act (Cap. 19); and

        (f) such other person or class of persons as may be prescribed
            by regulations made under section 59.

 (5) Nothing in this section shall prevent a person who, immediately
before the designation date of a financial holding company, is
lawfully using any name, logo or trade mark in the manner referred to
in subsection (1) from continuing to use the name, logo or trade mark
in such manner for a period of 3 years from the designation date.

Activities of designated financial holding company

 8.—(1) A designated financial holding company shall not carry out
any activity without the approval of the Authority, other than the
following:

       (a) being a holding company for its subsidiaries;

       (b) acquiring or holding of shares in any company as permitted
            under section 31;

       (c) for the purposes of providing support to the business
            conducted by any other company within the FHC group of
            the designated financial holding company —

               (i) conducting general management, and capital and
                   liquidity management; and

              (ii) providing advisory, financial, accounting, or
                   information processing services; and

       (d) such other activity as may be specified by notice in writing
            by the Authority.

 (2) Any designated financial holding company which contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              17

conviction to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every
day or part thereof during which the offence continues after
conviction.

Annual levy

 9.—(1) Every designated financial holding company shall pay to
the Authority such annual levy as may be prescribed and in such
manner as may be specified by the Authority.

 (2) The Authority may prescribe different levies in respect of
different classes or categories of designated financial holding
companies and the levies shall apply uniformly to those classes or
categories.

 (3) All levies collected under subsection (1) shall be paid into the
funds of the Authority.

Amendment of designated financial holding company’s
constitution

 10.—(1) Every designated financial holding company shall, prior
to the making of any amendment or alteration in the memorandum of
association and articles of association or other instrument under
which it is incorporated, formed or established, furnish to the
Authority particulars in writing of the proposed amendment or
alteration.

 (2) Every designated financial holding company shall, within
3 months after the making of any amendment or alteration in the
memorandum of association and articles of association or other
instrument under which it is incorporated, formed or established,
furnish to the Authority particulars in writing of the amendment or
alteration, verified by either of the following:

       (a) a statutory declaration or its equivalent made by a senior
            officer of the designated financial holding company; or

       (b) proof of lodgment of the amendment or alteration under the
            Companies Act (Cap. 50).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
18  NO. 13 OF 2013

 (3) Any designated financial holding company which contravenes
subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $25,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $2,500 for every
day or part thereof during which the offence continues after
conviction.

                                   PART IV

     CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDINGS AND CONTROL OF
        DESIGNATED FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANY

Application and interpretation of this Part

 11.—(1) This Part shall apply to, and in relation to —

       (a) all individuals, whether resident in Singapore or not and
            whether citizens of Singapore or not; and

       (b) all bodies corporate or unincorporate, whether
            incorporated, formed or established, or carrying on
            business in Singapore or not.

 (2) In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “12% controller” means a person, not being a 20% controller,
         who alone or together with his associates —

              (a) holds not less than 12% of the total number of issued
                   shares in the designated financial holding company;
                   or

              (b) is in a position to control voting power of not less
                   than 12% in the designated financial holding
                   company;

      “20% controller” means a person who, alone or together with his
         associates —

              (a) holds not less than 20% of the total number of issued
                   shares in the designated financial holding company;
                   or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              19

        (b) is in a position to control voting power of not less
             than 20% in the designated financial holding
             company;

“arrangement” includes any formal or informal scheme,
   arrangement or understanding, and any trust whether
   express or implied;

“designated financial holding company with bank subsidiary”
   and “financial holding company with bank subsidiary” mean
   a designated financial holding company and a financial
   holding company, respectively, each of which has a
   subsidiary that is a bank incorporated in Singapore;

“designated financial holding company without bank
   subsidiary” and “financial holding company without bank
   subsidiary” mean a designated financial holding company
   and a financial holding company, respectively, that do not
   have a subsidiary that is a bank incorporated in Singapore;

“indirect controller” means any person, whether acting alone or
   together with any other person, and whether with or without
   holding shares or controlling voting power in a designated
   financial holding company —

        (a) in accordance with whose directions, instructions or
             wishes the directors of the designated financial
             holding company are accustomed or under an
             obligation, whether formal or informal, to act; or

        (b) who is in a position to determine the policy of the
             designated financial holding company,

   but does not include —

        (i) any person who is a director or other officer of the
             designated financial holding company whose
             appointment has been approved by the Authority; and

       (ii) any person in accordance with whose directions,
             instructions or wishes the directors of the designated
             financial holding company are accustomed to act by

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
20  NO. 13 OF 2013

                 reason only that they act on advice given by him in
                 his professional capacity;

    “voting shares” has the same meaning as in section 4(1) of the
        Companies Act (Cap. 50).

(3) For the purposes of subsection (2) —

      (a) a person holds a share if —

             (i) he is deemed to have an interest in that share under
                  section 7(6) of the Companies Act; or

            (ii) he otherwise has a legal or an equitable interest in
                  that share except for such interests as is to be
                  disregarded under section 7(7) to (9) of the
                  Companies Act;

      (b) a reference to the control of a percentage of the voting
           power in a designated financial holding company is a
           reference to the control, whether direct or indirect, of that
           percentage of the total number of votes that might be cast
           in a general meeting of the designated financial holding
           company; and

      (c) a person, A, is an associate of another person, B, if —

             (i) A is the spouse, or a parent, remoter lineal ancestor or
                  step-parent, or a son, daughter, remoter issue,
                  step‑son or step‑daughter, or a brother or sister, of B;

            (ii) A is a body corporate that is, or a majority of the
                  directors of which are, accustomed or under an
                  obligation whether formal or informal to act in
                  accordance with the directions, instructions or
                  wishes of B;

                                                                             [Act 35 of 2014 wef 30/06/2022]

            (iii) [Deleted by Act 35 of 2014 wef 30/06/2022]

            (iv) A is a person who is accustomed or under an
                  obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
                  accordance with the directions, instructions or
                  wishes of B;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              21

(v) A is a subsidiary of B;

                             [Act 35 of 2014 wef 30/06/2022]

(vi) [Deleted by Act 35 of 2014 wef 30/06/2022]

(vii) A is a body corporate in which B, alone or together
      with other associates of B as described in
      sub‑paragraphs (ii), (iv) and (v), is in a position to
      control not less than 20% of the voting power in A; or

                                                             [Act 35 of 2014 wef 30/06/2022]

(viii) [Deleted by Act 35 of 2014 wef 30/06/2022]

(ix) A is a person with whom B has an agreement or
     arrangement, whether oral or in writing and whether
     express or implied, to act together with respect to the
     acquisition, holding or disposal of shares or other
     interests in, or with respect to the exercise of their
     voting power in relation to, the designated financial
     holding company.

Mergers involving designated financial holding company with
bank subsidiary

 12.—(1) A designated financial holding company with bank
subsidiary shall not be merged or consolidated with, or be taken
over by, any other body corporate or unincorporate without the prior
written approval of the Minister.

 (2) The Minister may approve an application made under
subsection (1) if —

       (a) the Authority is satisfied that —

               (i) the body corporate or unincorporate is a fit and
                   proper person or body of persons; and

              (ii) having regard to the likely influence of the body
                   corporate or unincorporate, the activities of the
                   designated financial holding company will be or
                   will continue to be conducted prudently and the
                   provisions of this Act will be or will continue to be
                   complied with in relation to its activities; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
22  NO. 13 OF 2013

       (b) the Minister is satisfied that it is in the national interest to
            do so.

 (3) The parties to a proposed merger, consolidation or take‑over, in
respect of which an application is made under this section, shall
furnish such information as the Minister or the Authority may require
for the purposes of subsection (2).

 (4) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), for the
purposes of this section, a designated financial holding company shall
be deemed to be merged with a body corporate or unincorporate if the
designated financial holding company or its shareholders enter into
any agreement or arrangement —

       (a) under which all or substantially all of the activities of the
            designated financial holding company are to be managed;
            and

       (b) under which the shareholders of the designated financial
            holding company will be accorded rights,

as if the designated financial holding company has been merged with
such body corporate or unincorporate, as the case may be.

Control of substantial shareholdings of designated financial
holding company with bank subsidiary

 13.—(1) No person shall become a substantial shareholder of a
designated financial holding company with bank subsidiary without
first obtaining the approval of the Minister.

 (2) Subject to section 15(5), a person (other than an excepted
person) who is a substantial shareholder of a financial holding
company with bank subsidiary immediately before the designation
date shall cease to be a substantial shareholder before the expiry of
the later of the following dates unless he has applied in writing to the
Minister for approval before such date:

       (a) 6 months after the designation date; or

       (b) such longer period as the Minister may allow in any
            particular case.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              23

 (3) No person shall enter into any agreement or arrangement,
whether oral or in writing and whether express or implied, to act
together with any person with respect to the acquisition, holding or
disposal of, or the exercise of rights in relation to, their interest in
voting shares of an aggregate of 5% or more of the total votes
attached to all voting shares in a designated financial holding
company with bank subsidiary, without first obtaining the approval of
the Minister.

 (4) Subject to section 15(5), a person (other than an excepted
person) who has entered into any agreement or arrangement referred
to in subsection (3) at any time before the designation date shall cease
to be a party to such an agreement or arrangement before the later of
the following dates unless he has applied in writing to the Minister for
approval before such date:

       (a) 6 months after the designation date; or

       (b) such longer period as the Minister may allow in any
            particular case.

 (5) For the purposes of this section, a person has an interest in any
share if —

       (a) he is deemed to have an interest in that share under
            section 7 of the Companies Act (Cap. 50); or

       (b) he otherwise has a legal or an equitable interest in that
            share except for such interest as is to be disregarded under
            section 7 of the Companies Act.

 (6) For the purposes of —

       (a) subsection (2), an “excepted person” means a person —

               (i) who —

                    (A) is a substantial shareholder of a bank
                          incorporated in Singapore which is a
                          subsidiary of the relevant designated financial
                          holding company; and

                     (B) had obtained approval to become a substantial
                          shareholder of that bank under section 15C,
                          read with section 15A(1) or (2), of the Banking

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
24  NO. 13 OF 2013

                       Act (Cap. 19) and which approval has not been
                       revoked; or

          (ii) who —

                 (A) immediately before the date of commencement
                       of this section, was a substantial shareholder of
                       a designated financial institution under the
                       Banking Act in force before that date; and

                 (B) had obtained approval to become a substantial
                       shareholder of the designated financial
                       institution under section 15C, read with
                       section 15A(1) or (2), of the Banking Act in
                       force immediately before that date, and which
                       approval has not been revoked;

    (b) subsection (4), an “excepted person” means a person —

           (i) who —

                 (A) has an agreement or arrangement, whether oral
                       or in writing and whether express or implied, to
                       act together with any person with respect to the
                       acquisition, holding or disposal of, or the
                       exercise of rights in relation to, their interest
                       in voting shares of an aggregate of 5% or more
                       of the total votes attached to all voting shares in
                       a bank incorporated in Singapore which is a
                       subsidiary of the relevant designated financial
                       holding company; and

                 (B) had obtained the approval for such agreement
                       or arrangement under section 15C, read with
                       section 15A(3) or (4), of the Banking Act, and
                       which approval has not been revoked; or

          (ii) who, immediately before the date of commencement
                of this section —

                 (A) had an agreement or arrangement, whether oral
                       or in writing and whether express or implied, to
                       act together with any person with respect to the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              25

                          acquisition, holding or disposal of, or the
                          exercise of rights in relation to, their interest
                          in voting shares of an aggregate of 5% or more
                          of the total votes attached to all voting shares in
                          a designated financial institution under the
                          Banking Act in force before that date; and

                     (B) had obtained approval for such agreement or
                          arrangement under section 15C, read with
                          section 15A(3) or (4), of the Banking Act in
                          force immediately before that date, and which
                          approval has not been revoked; and

       (c) subsection (5), any reference to “corporation” in section 7
            of the Companies Act shall be construed as if it did not
            exclude a co‑operative society.

Control of shareholdings and voting power of designated
financial holding company with bank subsidiary

 14.—(1) No person shall become —

       (a) a 12% controller;

       (b) a 20% controller; or

       (c) an indirect controller,

of a designated financial holding company with bank subsidiary
without first obtaining the approval of the Minister.

 (2) Subject to section 15(5), a person who is —

       (a) a 12% controller;

       (b) a 20% controller; or

       (c) an indirect controller,

of a financial holding company with bank subsidiary immediately
before the designation date shall, unless he is an excepted person,
cease to be such a controller before the expiry of 6 months after the
designation date, or such longer period as the Minister may allow in
any particular case, unless he has applied in writing to the Minister for
approval before such date.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
26  NO. 13 OF 2013

(3) For the purposes of —

      (a) subsection (2)(a), an “excepted person” means a person —

             (i) who —

                   (A) is a 12% controller of a bank incorporated in
                         Singapore, which is a subsidiary of the relevant
                         designated financial holding company; and

                   (B) had obtained approval to become a
                         12% controller of the bank under
                         section 15C, read with section 15B(1)(a) or
                         (2)(a), of the Banking Act (Cap. 19) and which
                         approval has not been revoked; or

            (ii) who —

                   (A) immediately before the date of commencement
                         of this section, was a 12% controller of a
                         designated financial institution under the
                         Banking Act in force before that date; and

                   (B) had obtained approval to become a
                         12% controller of the designated financial
                         institution under section 15C, read with
                         section 15B(1)(a) or (2)(a), of the Banking
                         Act in force immediately before the date of
                         commencement of this section, and which
                         approval has not been revoked;

      (b) subsection (2)(b), an “excepted person” means a person —

             (i) who —

                   (A) is a 20% controller of a bank incorporated in
                         Singapore, which is a subsidiary of the relevant
                         designated financial holding company; and

                   (B) had obtained approval to become a
                         20% controller of the bank under
                         section 15C, read with section 15B(1)(b) or
                         (2)(b), of the Banking Act and which approval
                         has not been revoked; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              27

      (ii) who —

             (A) immediately before the date of commencement
                  of this section, was a 20% controller of a
                  designated financial institution under the
                  Banking Act in force before that date; and

             (B) had obtained approval to become a
                  20% controller of the designated financial
                  institution under section 15C, read with
                  section 15B(1)(b) or (2)(b), of the Banking
                  Act in force immediately before the date of
                  commencement of this section, and which
                  approval has not been revoked;

(c) subsection (2)(c), an “excepted person” means a person —

       (i) who —

             (A) is an indirect controller of a bank incorporated
                  in Singapore which is a subsidiary of the
                  relevant designated financial holding
                  company; and

             (B) had obtained approval to become an indirect
                  controller of that bank under section 15C, read
                  with section 15B(1)(c) or (2)(c), of the
                  Banking Act and which approval has not
                  been revoked; or

      (ii) who —

             (A) immediately before the date of commencement
                  of this section, was an indirect controller of a
                  designated financial institution under the
                  Banking Act in force before that date; and

             (B) had obtained approval to become an indirect
                  controller of the designated financial
                  institution under section 15C, read with
                  section 15B(1)(c) or (2)(c), of the Banking
                  Act in force immediately before the date of

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
28  NO. 13 OF 2013

                          commencement of this section, and which
                          approval has not been revoked.

Approval of applications in case of designated financial holding
company with bank subsidiary

 15.—(1) The Minister may approve an application made by any
person under section 13 or 14 if —

       (a) the Authority is satisfied that —

               (i) the person is a fit and proper person; and

              (ii) having regard to the likely influence of the person,
                   the designated financial holding company will or
                   will continue to carry on its activities prudently and
                   comply with the provisions of this Act; and

       (b) the Minister is satisfied that it is in the national interest to
            do so.

 (2) Any approval under this section may be granted to any person
subject to such conditions as the Minister may determine, including
but not limited to any condition —

       (a) restricting the person’s disposal or further acquisition of
            shares or voting power in the designated financial holding
            company; or

       (b) restricting the person’s exercise of voting power in the
            designated financial holding company.

 (3) The Minister may at any time add to, vary or revoke any
condition imposed under subsection (2).

 (4) Any condition imposed under subsection (2) shall have effect
notwithstanding any of the provisions of the Companies Act
(Cap. 50) or anything contained in the memorandum or articles of
association of the designated financial holding company.

 (5) Where the Minister disapproves an application made by any
person under section 13(2) or (4) or 14(2), the person shall, within
such time as the Minister may specify, take such steps as are
necessary —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              29

       (a) in the case of section 13(2), to cease to be a substantial
            shareholder;

       (b) in the case of section 13(4), to cease to be a party to the
            agreement or arrangement; or

       (c) in the case of section 14(2), to cease to be —

               (i) a 12% controller;

              (ii) a 20% controller; or

             (iii) an indirect controller,

       (c) as the case may be.

Power to exempt and make further transitional provisions

 16. The Minister may, by order published in the Gazette —

       (a) exempt from section 13 or 14, subject to such terms and
            conditions as may be specified in the order —

               (i) any person or class of persons; or

              (ii) any class or description of shares or interest in
                   shares; and

       (b) make such further transitional provisions as he considers
            necessary or expedient for the purposes of section 13, 14 or
            15.

Objection to existing control of designated financial holding
company with bank subsidiary

 17.—(1) The Minister may serve a written notice of objection on
any person referred to in section 13 or 14, other than an excepted
person as defined in those sections, if —

       (a) the Minister is satisfied that —

               (i) any condition of approval imposed on the person
                   under section 15(2) has not been complied with;

              (ii) it is no longer in the national interest to allow the
                   person to continue to be a party to the agreement or
                   arrangement described in section 13(3), or to

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
30  NO. 13 OF 2013

                   continue to be a substantial shareholder, a
                   12% controller, a 20% controller or an indirect
                   controller, as the case may be;

             (iii) the person has furnished any false or misleading
                   information or document in connection with the
                   person’s application for approval under section 13 or
                   14; or

             (iv) he would not have granted his approval under
                   section 15 had he been aware, at that time, of
                   circumstances relevant to the person’s application for
                   such approval; or

       (b) the Authority is satisfied that —

               (i) the person has ceased to be a fit and proper person;

              (ii) having regard to the likely influence of the person,
                   the designated financial holding company is no
                   longer likely to carry on its activities prudently or to
                   comply with the provisions of this Act; or

             (iii) it would not have been satisfied as to any of the
                   matters specified in section 15(1)(a) had it been
                   aware, at that time, of circumstances relevant to the
                   person’s application under section 13 or 14.

 (2) The Minister may serve a written notice of objection on any
excepted person referred to in section 13 or 14 if —

       (a) the Minister is satisfied that it is not in the national interest
            to allow the excepted person to continue, as the case may
            be —

               (i) to be a party to the agreement or arrangement
                   described in section 13(4); or

              (ii) to be a substantial shareholder, a 12% controller, a
                   20% controller or an indirect controller; or

       (b) the Authority is satisfied that —

               (i) the excepted person is not a fit and proper person; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              31

              (ii) having regard to the likely influence of the excepted
                   person, the designated financial holding company is
                   not likely to carry on its activities prudently or to
                   comply with the provisions of this Act.

 (3) Before the service of a written notice of objection, the Minister
shall, unless he decides that it is not practicable or desirable to do so,
cause to be given to the person concerned notice in writing of his
intention to serve the written notice of objection, specifying a date by
which the person may make written representations with regard to the
proposed written notice of objection.

 (4) Upon receipt of any written representations, the Minister shall
consider them for the purposes of determining whether to issue a
written notice of objection.

 (5) The Minister shall, in any written notice of objection, specify a
reasonable period within which the person to be served the written
notice of objection shall —

       (a) take such steps as are necessary to ensure that he ceases to
            be a party to the agreement or arrangement described in
            section 13(3) or (4), or ceases to be a substantial
            shareholder, a 12% controller, a 20% controller or an
            indirect controller, as the case may be; or

       (b) comply with such direction or directions as the Minister
            may make under section 18.

 (6) Any person served with a written notice of objection under this
section shall comply with the notice.

Power to make directions in relation to designated financial
holding company with bank subsidiary

 18.—(1) Without prejudice to section 26, if the Minister is satisfied
that any person has contravened section 13, 14, 15(5) or 17(6) or has
failed to comply with any condition imposed under section 15(2), or
if the Minister has served a written notice of objection under
section 17, the Minister may, by directions in writing —

       (a) direct the transfer or disposal of all or any of the shares in
            the designated financial holding company held by the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
32  NO. 13 OF 2013

            person or any of his associates (referred to in this section as
            the specified shares) within such time or subject to such
            conditions as the Minister considers appropriate;

       (b) restrict the transfer or disposal of the specified shares; or

       (c) make such other direction or directions as may be specified
            in the notice.

 (2) Any person to whom a direction is given under subsection (1)
shall comply with such direction or directions as may be specified
therein.

 (3) In the case of any direction made under subsection (1)(a) or (b),
until a transfer or disposal is effected in accordance with the direction
or until the restriction on the transfer or disposal is removed, as the
case may be, notwithstanding any of the provisions of the Companies
Act (Cap. 50) or the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act
2018 or anything contained in the memorandum or articles of
association of the designated financial holding company —

       (a) no voting rights shall be exercisable in respect of the
            specified shares unless the Minister expressly permits such
            rights to be exercised;

       (b) no shares of the designated financial holding company
            shall be issued or offered (whether by way of rights, bonus
            or otherwise) in respect of the specified shares unless the
            Minister expressly permits such issue or offer; and

       (c) except in a liquidation of the designated financial holding
            company, no payment shall be made by the designated
            financial holding company of any amount (whether by way
            of dividends or otherwise) in respect of the specified shares
            unless the Minister expressly authorises such payment.

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2018 wef 30/06/2022]

Mergers involving designated financial holding company
without bank subsidiary

 19.—(1) A designated financial holding company without bank
subsidiary shall not be merged or consolidated with, or be taken over

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              33

by, any other body corporate or unincorporate without the prior
written approval of the Authority.

 (2) The Authority may approve an application made under
subsection (1) if the Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) the body corporate or unincorporate is a fit and proper
            person or body of persons; and

       (b) having regard to the likely influence of the body corporate
            or unincorporate, the activities of the designated financial
            holding company will be or will continue to be conducted
            prudently and the provisions of this Act will be or will
            continue to be complied with in relation to its activities.

 (3) The parties to a proposed merger, consolidation or take‑over, in
respect of which an application is made under this section, shall
furnish such information as the Authority may require for the
purposes of subsection (2).

 (4) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), for the
purposes of this section, a designated financial holding company shall
be deemed to be merged with a body corporate or unincorporate if the
designated financial holding company or its shareholders enter into
any agreement or arrangement —

       (a) under which all or substantially all of the activities of the
            designated financial holding company are to be managed;
            and

       (b) under which the shareholders of the designated financial
            holding company will be accorded rights,

as if the designated financial holding company has been merged with
such body corporate or unincorporate, as the case may be.

Control of substantial shareholdings of designated financial
holding company without bank subsidiary

 20.—(1) No person shall become a substantial shareholder of a
designated financial holding company without bank subsidiary
without first obtaining the approval of the Authority.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
34  NO. 13 OF 2013

 (2) Subject to section 22(5), a person (other than an excepted
person) who is a substantial shareholder of a financial holding
company without bank subsidiary immediately before the
designation date shall cease to be a substantial shareholder before
the expiry of the later of the following dates unless he has applied in
writing to the Authority for approval before such date:

       (a) 6 months after the designation date; or

       (b) such longer period as the Authority may, in any particular
            case, allow.

 (3) No person shall enter into any agreement or arrangement,
whether oral or in writing and whether express or implied, to act
together with any person with respect to the acquisition or holding of,
or the exercise of rights in relation to, their interest in voting shares of
an aggregate of 5% or more of the total votes attached to all voting
shares in a designated financial holding company without bank
subsidiary, without first obtaining the approval of the Authority.

 (4) No person shall enter into any agreement or arrangement,
whether oral or in writing and whether express or implied, to act
together with any person with respect to the disposal of their interest
in voting shares of an aggregate of 5% or more of the total votes
attached to all voting shares in a designated financial holding
company without bank subsidiary, without first notifying the
Authority.

 (5) Subject to section 22(5), a person (other than an excepted
person) who has entered into any agreement or arrangement referred
to in subsection (3) at any time before the designation date shall cease
to be a party to such an agreement or arrangement before the later of
the following dates unless he has applied in writing to the Authority
for approval before such date:

       (a) 6 months after the designation date; or

       (b) such longer period as the Authority may, in any particular
            case, allow.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              35

 (6) For the purposes of this section —

       (a) a person has an interest in any share if —

               (i) he is deemed to have an interest in that share under
                   section 7 of the Companies Act (Cap. 50); or

              (ii) he otherwise has a legal or an equitable interest in
                   that share except for such interest as is to be
                   disregarded under section 7 of the Companies Act;

       (b) an “excepted person”, in relation to subsection (2), means a
            person who —

               (i) is a substantial shareholder of a licensed insurer
                   incorporated in Singapore which is a subsidiary of
                   the relevant designated financial holding company;
                   and

              (ii) had obtained approval, or is deemed to have obtained
                   approval, to become such a substantial shareholder
                   under section 29(1) of the Insurance Act (Cap. 142)
                   and which approval has not been revoked; and

       (c) an “excepted person”, in relation to subsection (5), means a
            person who —

               (i) has an agreement or arrangement, whether oral or in
                   writing and whether express or implied, to act
                   together with any person with respect to the
                   acquisition or holding of, or the exercise of rights
                   in relation to, their interest in voting shares of an
                   aggregate of 5% or more of the total votes attached to
                   all voting shares in a licensed insurer incorporated in
                   Singapore which is a subsidiary of the relevant
                   designated financial holding company; and

              (ii) had obtained the approval for such agreement or
                   arrangement under section 29(2) of the Insurance
                   Act and which approval has not been revoked.

 (7) For the purposes of subsection (6)(a), any reference to
“corporation” in section 7 of the Companies Act shall be construed
as if it did not exclude a co-operative society.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
36  NO. 13 OF 2013

Control of shareholdings and voting power of designated
financial holding company without bank subsidiary

 21.—(1) No person shall become —

       (a) a 20% controller; or

       (b) an indirect controller,

of a designated financial holding company without bank subsidiary
without first obtaining the approval of the Authority.

 (2) Subject to section 22(5), a person who is —

       (a) a 20% controller; or

       (b) an indirect controller,

of a financial holding company without bank subsidiary immediately
before the designation date shall, unless he is an excepted person,
cease to be such a controller before the expiry of 6 months after the
designation date, or such longer period as the Authority may allow in
any particular case, unless he has applied in writing to the Authority
for approval before such date.

 (3) In subsection (2), “excepted person” means a person who has
obtained, or is deemed to have obtained, approval to obtain effective
control of a licensed insurer incorporated in Singapore which is a
subsidiary of the relevant designated financial holding company
without bank subsidiary under section 28 of the Insurance Act
(Cap. 142), and which approval has not been revoked.

Approval of applications in case of designated financial holding
company without bank subsidiary

 22.—(1) The Authority may approve an application made by any
person under section 20 or 21 if the Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) the person is a fit and proper person; and

       (b) having regard to the likely influence of the person, the
            designated financial holding company will or will continue
            to carry on its activities prudently and comply with the
            provisions of this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              37

 (2) Any approval under this section may be granted to any person
subject to such conditions as the Authority may determine, including
but not limited to any condition —

       (a) restricting the person’s disposal or further acquisition of
            shares or voting power in the designated financial holding
            company; or

       (b) restricting the person’s exercise of voting power in the
            designated financial holding company.

 (3) The Authority may at any time add to, vary or revoke any
condition imposed under subsection (2).

 (4) Any condition imposed under subsection (2) shall have effect
notwithstanding any of the provisions of the Companies Act
(Cap. 50) or anything contained in the memorandum or articles of
association of the designated financial holding company.

 (5) Where the Authority disapproves an application made by any
person under section 20(2) or (5) or 21(2), the person shall, within
such time as the Authority may specify, take such steps as are
necessary —

       (a) in the case of section 20(2), to cease to be a substantial
            shareholder;

       (b) in the case of section 20(5), to cease to be a party to the
            agreement or arrangement; or

       (c) in the case of section 21(2), to cease to be —

               (i) a 20% controller; or

              (ii) an indirect controller,

       (c) as the case may be.

Objection to existing control of designated financial holding
company without bank subsidiary

 23.—(1) The Authority may serve a written notice of objection on
any substantial shareholder, 20% controller or indirect controller,
other than an excepted person, referred to in section 20 or 21 if the
Authority is satisfied that —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
38  NO. 13 OF 2013

       (a) any condition of approval imposed on the person under
            section 22(2) has not been complied with;

       (b) the person furnished any false or misleading information or
            document in connection with the person’s application
            under section 20 or 21;

       (c) the person has ceased to be a fit and proper person;

       (d) having regard to the likely influence of the person, the
            designated financial holding company is no longer likely to
            carry on its activities prudently or to comply with the
            provisions of this Act; or

       (e) it would not have been satisfied as to any of the matters
            specified in section 22(1) had it been aware, at that time, of
            circumstances relevant to the person’s application under
            section 20 or 21.

 (2) The Authority may serve a written notice of objection on any
excepted person referred to in section 20 or 21, if the Authority is
satisfied that —

       (a) the excepted person is not a fit and proper person; and

       (b) having regard to the likely influence of the excepted
            person, the designated financial holding company is not
            likely to carry on its activities prudently or to comply with
            the provisions of this Act.

 (3) Before the service of a written notice of objection, the Authority
shall, unless the Authority decides that it is not practicable or
desirable to do so, cause to be given to the person concerned notice in
writing of the Authority’s intention to serve the written notice of
objection, specifying a date by which the person may make written
representations with regard to the proposed written notice of
objection.

 (4) Upon receipt of any written representations, the Authority shall
consider them for the purposes of determining whether to issue a
written notice of objection.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              39

 (5) The Authority shall, in any written notice of objection, specify a
reasonable period within which the person served the written notice
of objection shall —

       (a) take such steps as are necessary to ensure that he ceases to
            be a party to the agreement or arrangement described in
            section 20(3), (4) or (5), or ceases to be a substantial
            shareholder, a 20% controller or an indirect controller, as
            the case may be; or

       (b) comply with such direction or directions as the Authority
            may make under section 24.

 (6) Any person served with a written notice of objection under this
section shall comply with the notice.

Power to make directions in relation to designated financial
holding company without bank subsidiary

 24.—(1) Without prejudice to section 26, if the Authority is
satisfied that any person has contravened section 20, 21, 22(5) or
23(6) or has failed to comply with any condition imposed under
section 22(2), or if the Authority has served a written notice of
objection under section 23, the Authority may, by direction in
writing —

       (a) direct the transfer or disposal of all or any of the shares in
            the designated financial holding company held by the
            person or any of his associates (referred to in this section as
            the specified shares) within such time or subject to such
            conditions as the Authority considers appropriate;

       (b) restrict the transfer or disposal of the specified shares; or

       (c) make such other direction or directions as may be specified
            in the notice.

 (2) Any person to whom a direction is given under subsection (1)
shall comply with such direction or directions as may be specified
therein.

 (3) In the case of any direction made under subsection (1)(a) or (b),
until a transfer or disposal is effected in accordance with the direction
or until the restriction on the transfer or disposal is removed, as the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
40  NO. 13 OF 2013

case may be, notwithstanding any of the provision of the Companies
Act (Cap. 50) or the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act
2018 or anything contained in the memorandum or articles of
association of the designated financial holding company —

       (a) no voting rights shall be exercisable in respect of the
            specified shares unless the Authority expressly permits
            such rights to be exercised;

       (b) no shares of the designated financial holding company
            shall be issued or offered (whether by way of rights, bonus
            or otherwise) in respect of the specified shares unless the
            Authority expressly permits such issue or offer; and

       (c) except in a liquidation of the designated financial holding
            company, no payment shall be made by the designated
            financial holding company of any amount (whether by way
            of dividends or otherwise) in respect of the specified shares
            unless the Authority expressly authorises such payment.

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2018 wef 30/06/2022]

Appeals

 25. Any person who is aggrieved by a decision of the Authority
under this Part may, within 30 days after he is notified of the decision
by the Authority, appeal in writing to the Minister whose decision
shall be final.

Offences, penalties and defences under this Part

 26.—(1) Any person who contravenes section 12(1), 13(1), (2), (3)
or (4), 14(1)(a) or (2)(a), 15(5)(a), (b) or (c)(i), 19(1), 20(1), (2), (3),
(4) or (5) or 22(5)(a) or (b) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence (if
            applicable), to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for
            every day or part thereof during which the offence
            continues after conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence (if applicable), to a further

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              41

            fine not exceeding $25,000 for every day or part thereof
            during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (2) Any person who contravenes section 14(1)(b) or (c) or (2)(b) or
(c), 15(5)(c)(ii) or (iii), 17(6), 18(2) or (3), 21(1) or (2), 22(5)(c),
23(6) or 24(2) or (3), or who fails to comply with any condition
imposed under section 15(2) or 22(2), shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence
            (if applicable), to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for
            every day or part thereof during which the offence
            continues after conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence (if applicable), to a further
            fine not exceeding $25,000 for every day or part thereof
            during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (3) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 13, 14, 20 or 21, it shall be a defence for the
person to prove that —

       (a) he was not aware that he had contravened section 13, 14,
            20 or 21, as the case may be; and

       (b) within 14 days after becoming aware that he had
            contravened section 13, 14, 20 or 21, as the case may be,
            he notified the Minister or the Authority, as the case may
            be, of the contravention and, within such further time as
            determined by the Minister or the Authority, as the case
            may be, has taken such actions in relation to his
            shareholding or control of the voting power in the
            designated financial holding company as the Minister or
            the Authority, as the case may be, may direct.

 (4) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 14 or 21, it shall also be a defence for the
person to prove that, even though he was aware of the
contravention —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
42  NO. 13 OF 2013

       (a) the contravention occurred as a result of an increase in the
            shareholding as described in section 11(3)(a) of, or in the
            voting power controlled by, any of his associates described
            in section 11(3)(c)(i);

       (b) he has no agreement or arrangement, whether oral or in
            writing and whether express or implied, with that associate
            with respect to the acquisition, holding or disposal of
            shares or other interests in, or under which they act
            together in exercising their voting power in relation to, the
            designated financial holding company; and

       (c) he has, within 14 days of the date of the contravention,
            notified the Minister or the Authority, as the case may be,
            of the contravention and, within such time as may be
            determined by the Minister or the Authority, as the case
            may be, taken such action in relation to his shareholding or
            control of the voting power in the designated financial
            holding company as the Minister or the Authority, as the
            case may be, may direct.

 (5) Except as provided in subsections (3) and (4), it shall not be a
defence for a person charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 13, 14, 20 or 21 to prove that he did not
intend to or did not knowingly contravene section 13, 14, 20 or 21, as
the case may be.

Power of Authority to obtain information

 27.—(1) The Authority may, by notice in writing, direct any
designated financial holding company to obtain from any of its
shareholders and to transmit to the Authority any information relating
to its shareholders which the Minister or the Authority may require
for the purposes of ascertaining or investigating into the control of
shareholding or voting power in the designated financial holding
company, or exercising any power or function under sections 13 to 18
and sections 20 to 25, including information —

       (a) as to whether that shareholder holds any share in the
            designated financial holding company as beneficial owner
            or as trustee; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              43

       (b) if he holds the share as trustee, to indicate as far as he can,
            the person for whom he holds the share (either by name or
            by other particulars sufficient to enable that person to be
            identified) and the nature of his interest,

and the designated financial holding company shall comply with that
direction within such time as may be specified in the notice.

 (2) The Authority may, by notice in writing, require any
shareholder of a designated financial holding company, or any
person who appears from information provided to the Authority
under subsection (1) or this subsection to have an interest in any share
in a designated financial holding company, to provide to the
Authority any information relating to the shareholder or the person,
as the case may be, which the Minister or the Authority may require
for the purposes of ascertaining or investigating into the control of
shareholding or voting power in the designated financial holding
company, or exercising any power or function under sections 13 to 18
and sections 20 to 25, including —

       (a) whether he holds that interest as beneficial owner or as
            trustee, and if he holds the interest as trustee, to indicate as
            far as he can, the person for whom he holds the interest
            (either by name or by other particulars sufficient to enable
            that person to be identified) and the nature of his interest;
            or

       (b) whether any share or any voting right attached to the share
            is the subject of an agreement or arrangement described in
            section 11(3)(c)(ix), 13(3) or (4) or 20(3), (4) or (5) and if
            so, to give particulars of the agreement or arrangement and
            the parties to it,

and the shareholder or the person shall comply with that notice within
such time as may be specified therein.

 (3) Any person who —

       (a) fails to comply with a notice under this section; or

       (b) in purported compliance with the notice, knowingly or
            recklessly furnishes any information or document that is
            false or misleading in a material particular,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
44  NO. 13 OF 2013

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (4) Any person convicted of an offence under subsection (3) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
            to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
            part thereof during which the offence continues after
            conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $25,000 for every day or part thereof during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

 (5) Where a person claims, before furnishing the Authority with
any information or document that he is required to furnish under
subsection (2), that the information or documents might tend to
incriminate him, the information or documents shall not be
admissible in evidence against him in criminal proceedings other
than proceedings under this Part.

                                    PART V

          EXPOSURES AND LIMITS ON INVESTMENTS

Exposures

 28.—(1) A designated financial holding company shall not grant
any credit facility except to —

       (a) any company within its FHC group; or

       (b) any company within the FHC group of the ultimate
            financial holding company of the designated financial
            holding company.

 (2) The Authority may, by notice in writing to any designated
financial holding company, or any class of designated financial
holding companies, impose such requirements as may be necessary or
expedient for the purposes of limiting the exposure of the designated

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              45

financial holding company, or a designated financial holding
company within the class of designated financial holding
companies, to any one or more of the following:

       (a) a substantial shareholder group of the designated financial
            holding company;

       (b) the financial group of the designated financial holding
            company;

       (c) a director group of the designated financial holding
            company;

       (d) a third party single counterparty group of the designated
            financial holding company;

       (e) any other person or class of persons as may be prescribed.

 (3) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (2), the
Authority may in a notice issued under that subsection —

       (a) specify the limit on any exposure;

       (b) exclude any exposure from any limit;

       (c) specify the method of measuring any exposure;

       (d) exclude any designated financial holding company or class
            of designated financial holding companies from any
            requirement imposed under subsection (2); and

       (e) vary any limit in a particular case.

 (4) A designated financial holding company shall not grant any
credit facility against the security of its own shares or those of any of
its subsidiaries.

 (5) Any designated financial holding company which fails to
comply with subsection (1) or (4) or any requirement imposed under
subsection (2) or (3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every
day or part thereof during which the offence continues after
conviction.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
46  NO. 13 OF 2013

 (6) In this section —

       (a) the words “director group”, “exposure”, “financial group”,
            “substantial shareholder group” and “third party single
            counterparty group” have the meanings given to them in
            the Schedule; and

       (b) a financial holding company is the “ultimate financial
            holding company” of another corporation if —

               (i) the other corporation is a subsidiary of the financial
                   holding company; and

              (ii) the financial holding company is not itself a
                   subsidiary of any other financial holding company.

Disclosure of interests by directors

 29.—(1) Every director of a designated financial holding company
who has in any manner, directly or indirectly, an interest in an
exposure of, or a proposed exposure of —

       (a) that designated financial holding company; or

       (b) any of the companies within the FHC group of the
            designated financial holding company,

shall as soon as practicable declare the nature of his interest to the
board of directors of that designated financial holding company and
the secretary of that designated financial holding company shall
cause the declaration to be circulated immediately to all the directors.

 (2) The requirements in subsection (1) shall not apply in any case
where the interest of the director consists only of being a member or
creditor of a company which is interested in an exposure of, or a
proposed exposure of, that designated financial holding company if
the interest of the director may properly be regarded as of a trivial
nature.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), a general notice given to the
board of directors of a designated financial holding company to the
effect that he is an officer or a member of a specified company, or a
partner or manager of a specified firm or specified limited liability
partnership, and that he is to be regarded as having an interest in any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              47

exposure which may, after the date of the notice, be acquired in
respect of that company, firm or limited liability partnership, shall be
deemed to be a sufficient declaration of interest in relation to any
exposure so acquired if —

       (a) the notice specifies the nature and extent of his interest in
            that company, firm or limited liability partnership;

       (b) his interest is not different in nature from or greater in
            extent than the nature and extent so specified in the notice
            at the time any exposure is so acquired; and

       (c) it is given at a meeting of the board of directors or the
            director takes reasonable steps to ensure that it is brought
            up and read at the next meeting of the board of directors
            after it is given.

 (4) Every director of a designated financial holding company who
holds any office or possesses any property whereby, directly or
indirectly, duties or interest might be created in conflict with his
duties or interest as director shall declare at a meeting of the directors
of that designated financial holding company the fact and the nature,
character and extent of the conflict.

 (5) The declaration referred to in subsection (4) shall be made at the
first meeting of the directors held —

       (a) after he becomes a director of the designated financial
            holding company; or

       (b) if already a director, after he commences to hold the office
            or to possess the property, as the case may be.

 (6) The secretary of the designated financial holding company
shall —

       (a) cause to be brought up and read any declaration made
            under subsection (1) or (4) at the next meeting of the
            directors after it is given; and

       (b) record any declaration made under this section in the
            minutes of the meeting at which it was made or at which it
            was brought up and read.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
48  NO. 13 OF 2013

 (7) Any director who acts in contravention of subsection (1) or (4)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both.

 (8) In this section, “exposure” has the meaning given to it in the
Schedule.

Limit on equity investments

 30.—(1) The Authority may by regulations impose such
requirements for the purposes of limiting the amount of equity
investment in a single company which the designated financial
holding company or class of designated financial holding companies
may acquire or hold.

 (2) This section shall not apply to —

       (a) any interest held by way of security for the purposes of a
            transaction entered into in the ordinary course of the
            business of the designated financial holding company;

       (b) any shareholding or interest acquired or held by the
            designated financial holding company in the course of
            satisfaction of debts due to it which is disposed of at the
            earliest suitable opportunity; or

       (c) any major stake approved, or deemed to have been
            approved, by the Authority under section 31.

 (3) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), the
Authority may, by regulations —

       (a) provide for the manner of valuation of investments for the
            purposes of compliance with this section; and

       (b) exclude the operation of this section in respect of any
            investment or class of investments which may be held by
            any designated financial holding company, subject to such
            conditions as may be prescribed.

 (4) Any designated financial holding company which contravenes
any regulation made under this section or fails to comply with any
condition imposed or prescribed thereunder shall be guilty of an

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              49

offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part thereof during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (5) In this section, “equity investment” means —

       (a) any beneficial interest in the share capital of a company;
            and

       (b) such other investment, interest or right as may be
            prescribed.

Investments in companies

 31.—(1) No designated financial holding company shall acquire or
hold, directly or indirectly, a major stake in any company without the
prior approval of the Authority.

 (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) —

       (a) a designated financial holding company may, within
            6 months after its designation date or such longer period
            as the Authority may allow in any particular case, hold
            directly or indirectly, a major stake in any company
            without the prior approval of the Authority; but

       (b) the designated financial holding company shall not
            continue to hold the major stake after the period referred
            to in paragraph (a) unless it has obtained the approval of
            the Authority.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), the approval of the Authority for a
designated financial holding company to acquire or hold, directly or
indirectly, a major stake in a company shall be deemed to have been
granted in the following circumstances:

       (a) the major stake is acquired or held indirectly through a
            subsidiary of the designated financial holding company —

               (i) that is a bank incorporated in Singapore which
                   acquisition or holding of the major stake was
                   approved by the Authority under section 32 of the
                   Banking Act (Cap. 19) prior to the financial holding

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
50  NO. 13 OF 2013

                   company being designated under section 4, and
                   which approval has not been revoked; or

              (ii) that is a licensed insurer which acquisition or holding
                   of the major stake was approved, or deemed to have
                   been approved, by the Authority under section 30B
                   of the Insurance Act (Cap. 142) prior to the financial
                   holding company being designated under section 4,
                   and which approval has not been revoked; or

       (b) the Authority had, prior to the financial holding company
            being designated under section 4, given the financial
            holding company approval to acquire or hold the major
            stake pursuant to the requirements of directions made
            under section 28(3) of the Monetary Authority of
            Singapore Act (Cap. 186), and which approval has not
            been revoked.

 (4) Any approval granted, or deemed to have been granted, by the
Authority under this section to a designated financial holding
company to acquire or hold, directly or indirectly, a major stake in
a company may be subject to such conditions as the Authority may
determine, including any condition relating to the operations or
activities of the company.

 (5) For the avoidance of doubt, the conditions imposed by the
Authority under subsection (4) may be specified by notice in writing
to a designated financial holding company or any class of designated
financial holding companies.

 (6) The Authority may at any time add to, vary or revoke any
condition imposed under subsection (4).

 (7) This section shall not apply to —

       (a) any interest held by way of security for the purposes of a
            transaction entered into in the ordinary course of the
            business of the designated financial holding company;

       (b) any shareholding or interest acquired or held by a
            designated financial holding company in the course of
            satisfaction of debts due to it which is disposed of at the
            earliest suitable opportunity; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              51

       (c) such other interest as may be prescribed.

 (8) The Authority may, by regulations —

       (a) exclude the operation of this section in respect of any
            company or class of companies, subject to such conditions
            as may be prescribed;

       (b) provide for the manner of computation of major stakes; and

       (c) provide that any interest or control referred to in the
            definition of “major stake” in subsection (10), that is
            acquired or held, directly or indirectly, by a company in
            which a designated financial holding company has,
            directly or indirectly, a major stake shall be deemed to
            be acquired or held by the designated financial holding
            company.

 (9) Any designated financial holding company which contravenes
this section or fails to comply with any condition imposed or
prescribed under this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in the case
of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $25,000 for
every day or part thereof during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (10) In this section —

      “major stake” means —

              (a) any beneficial interest in issued shares of a company
                   exceeding 10% of the total number of issued shares in
                   the company or, in the case of an umbrella VCC,
                   either exceeding 10% of the total number of issued
                   shares in the umbrella VCC that are not in respect of
                   any of its sub‑funds, or exceeding 10% of the total
                   number of issued shares in the umbrella VCC in
                   respect of any one of its sub‑funds;

              (b) control over more than 10% of the voting power in a
                   company or, in the case of an umbrella VCC, either
                   more than 10% of the voting power in the umbrella
                   VCC that is not in respect of any of its sub‑funds or,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
52  NO. 13 OF 2013

                   more than 10% of the voting power in the umbrella
                   VCC in respect of any one of its sub‑funds; or

              (c) any interest in a company, where the directors of the
                   company are accustomed or under an obligation,
                   whether formal or informal, to act in accordance with
                   the designated financial holding company’s
                   directions, instructions or wishes, or where the
                   designated financial holding company is in a
                   position to determine the policy of the company;

      “sub‑fund”, in relation to an umbrella VCC, has the meaning
         given by section 2(1) of the Variable Capital Companies Act
         2018;

      “umbrella VCC” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
         Variable Capital Companies Act 2018.

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 30/06/2022]

Immovable property

 32.—(1) No designated financial holding company shall acquire or
hold interests in or rights over immovable property, wherever
situated.

 (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) —

       (a) a designated financial holding company may, within
            6 months after its designation date or such longer period
            as the Authority may allow in any particular case, hold
            interests in or rights over immovable property, wherever
            situated; but

       (b) the designated financial holding company shall not
            continue to hold the interests in or rights over
            immovable property, after the period referred to in
            paragraph (a) unless it obtained the approval of the
            Authority.

 (3) In addition to the restriction under subsection (1), the Authority
may make such regulations as may be necessary or expedient for the
purpose of limiting, in relation to a designated financial holding
company, the acquisition or holding of interests in or rights over

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              53

immovable property by the FHC group of the designated financial
holding company in such manner as the Authority may determine.

 (4) For the purposes of complying with regulations under
subsection (3), a designated financial holding company shall
aggregate, in such manner as may be prescribed, the value of every
interest in or right over immovable property that is acquired or held
by any company within the FHC group of the designated financial
holding company.

 (5) In this section, “immovable property” shall exclude the
following:

       (a) any interest in or right over immovable property or any part
            thereof used for the purposes of conducting the business of
            any of the companies within its FHC group or housing or
            providing amenities for the officers of any of the
            companies within its FHC group;

       (b) any interest in or right over immovable property held by
            way of security for the purposes of a transaction entered
            into in the ordinary course of the business of any of the
            companies within its FHC group;

       (c) any interest in or right over immovable property held by
            way of enforcement of such security referred to in
            paragraph (b), provided that it is disposed of at the
            earliest suitable opportunity;

       (d) any interest in or right over immovable property or any part
            thereof held for the benefit of persons other than any
            company in the FHC group pursuant to an obligation
            imposed under any written law, rule of law, contract or
            order of court; and

       (e) such other interest in or right over immovable property as
            the Authority may prescribe.

 (6) The Authority may make regulations to provide for the manner
of valuation or apportionment of immovable property for the
purposes of this section.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
54  NO. 13 OF 2013

 (7) Any designated financial holding company which contravenes
subsection (1), (2) or (4) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in the case
of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $10,000 for
every day or part thereof during which the offence continues after
conviction.

Power of Authority to secure compliance with provisions of this
Part

 33.—(1) Any designated financial holding company, if at any time
called upon in writing by the Authority to do so, shall satisfy the
Authority by the production of such evidence or information as it may
require, that the designated financial holding company is not in
contravention of any of the provisions in this Part.

 (2) Without prejudice to sections 28, 30 and 31, the Authority may,
for the purposes of securing compliance with those sections on a
consolidated basis, from time to time by notice in writing, require any
designated financial holding company to aggregate, in such manner
as may be specified in the notice, its accounts, with the accounts of all
or any of —

       (a) the designated financial holding company’s related
            corporations; and

       (b) companies in which the designated financial holding
            company acquires or holds, directly or indirectly, a
            major stake as defined in section 31(10).

 (3) The designated financial holding company shall comply with
the requirement referred to in subsection (2) within such time as is
specified in the notice.

 (4) Any designated financial holding company that fails to provide
any of the evidence or information required by the Authority under
subsection (1), shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every
day or part thereof during which the offence continues after
conviction.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              55

 (5) Any designated financial holding company that fails, within the
time referred to in subsection (3), to comply with a requirement
referred to in subsection (2) relating to the aggregation of accounts for
the purposes of complying with section 28, 30 or 31 on a consolidated
basis shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
the same punishment provided under section 28, 30 or 31, whichever
is applicable, for failure to comply with that section.

 (6) In this section, “accounts” means any item on the profit and loss
accounts and balance-sheet.

                                   PART VI

       MINIMUM ASSET AND CAPITAL REQUIREMENT

Minimum liquid assets

 34.—(1) The Authority may, from time to time, by notice in writing
to any designated financial holding company or class of designated
financial holding companies, impose requirements in relation to the
minimum amount or amounts of liquid assets to be held by the
designated financial holding company or class of designated financial
holding companies, having regard to the risks arising from the
activities of the designated financial holding company and its FHC
group and such other factors as the Authority considers relevant.

 (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), the
Authority may impose limits on each liquid asset or class of liquid
assets to be held by a designated financial holding company or class
of designated financial holding companies.

 (3) Where the Authority issues a notice under subsection (1) to a
class of designated financial holding companies, the Authority may
require different designated financial holding companies within the
class of designated financial holding companies to hold different
amount or amounts of liquid assets, having regard to the risks arising
from the activities of each designated financial holding company and
its FHC group, the systemic impact of each designated financial
holding company and its FHC group on the financial sector and such
other factors as the Authority may consider relevant.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
56  NO. 13 OF 2013

 (4) Whenever the Authority issues a notice under subsection (1),
each designated financial holding company shall be allowed such
period of grace, being not less than 3 business days, as may be
specified in the notice, in which to comply with its provisions.

 (5) A designated financial holding company shall not, during any
period in which it has failed to comply with any requirement imposed
under subsection (1), without the approval of the Authority, grant
further credit facility to any person.

 (6) Notwithstanding subsection (1) and subject to subsection (9), a
designated financial holding company may, in accordance with the
requirements imposed under subsection (7), utilise its liquid assets
held for the purposes of subsection (1) if the designated financial
holding company —

       (a) is in a liquidity stress situation; and

       (b) is solvent immediately before, and will remain solvent
            after, the utilisation of its liquid assets.

 (7) For the purposes of subsection (6), the Authority may, from time
to time, by notice in writing to a designated financial holding
company impose requirements in relation to the utilisation by the
designated financial holding company of its liquid assets held for the
purposes of subsection (1), including —

       (a) the procedures which the designated financial holding
            company must comply with before or after utilising, or
            during the utilisation of, its liquid assets; and

       (b) the manner in which the designated financial holding
            company may utilise its liquid assets.

 (8) A designated financial holding company shall, within such time
as may be specified by the Authority, provide any information
required by the Authority in relation to its liquidity stress situation
and the utilisation of its liquid assets held for the purposes of
subsection (1).

 (9) Where the Authority is of the opinion that —

       (a) a designated financial holding company is not in a liquidity
            stress situation;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              57

       (b) a designated financial holding company has failed to
            comply with any requirement imposed under
            subsection (7);

       (c) a designated financial holding company is or is likely to
            become insolvent, or that it is or is likely to become unable
            to meet its obligations, or that it is about to suspend
            payments; or

       (d) it is in the public interest to do so,

the Authority may by notice in writing to the designated financial
holding company —

        (i) where the designated financial holding company has
            already utilised its liquid assets held for the purposes of
            subsection (1), direct the designated financial holding
            company to comply with any requirement imposed under
            subsection (1) within such time as may be specified by the
            Authority in the notice; or

       (ii) where the designated financial holding company has not,
            or has not fully, utilised its liquid assets held for the
            purposes of subsection (1), do one or more of the
            following:

             (A) refuse to allow the designated financial holding
                   company to utilise its liquid assets held for the
                   purposes of subsection (1) which are within the
                   control of the Authority;

              (B) direct the designated financial holding company to
                   cease utilising its liquid assets held for the purposes
                   of subsection (1);

              (C) direct the designated financial holding company to
                   comply with any requirement imposed under
                   subsection (1) within such time as may be
                   specified by the Authority in the notice.

 (10) Any designated financial holding company which fails to
comply with —

       (a) subsection (5) or (8);

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
58  NO. 13 OF 2013

       (b) any requirement of the Authority under subsection (7); or

       (c) any direction of the Authority under subsection (1) or (9),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every day or part thereof
during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (11) In this section —

      “liquid assets” means —

              (a) notes and coins which are legal tender in Singapore
                   other than assets maintained and held by the
                   subsidiary of the designated financial holding
                   company which is a bank incorporated in
                   Singapore for the purposes of section 40 of the
                   Banking Act (Cap. 19);

              (b) balances with the Authority other than —

                     (i) cash balances maintained by a subsidiary of the
                          designated financial holding company which is
                          a bank incorporated in Singapore for the
                          purposes of section 39 of the Banking Act; and

                     (ii) assets maintained and held by a subsidiary of
                          the designated financial holding company
                          which is a bank incorporated in Singapore for
                          the purposes of section 40 of the Banking Act;
                          and

              (c) such other assets as the Authority may from time to
                   time approve;

      “liquidity stress situation” has the meaning given to it in the
         Schedule.

Minimum capital requirements

 35.—(1) A designated financial holding company shall have a
minimum paid-up ordinary share capital of not less than the highest
amount of the paid-up capital which any of its subsidiaries that is a
bank incorporated in Singapore or a licensed insurer incorporated,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              59

formed or established in Singapore is required to hold under the
Banking Act (Cap. 19) or the Insurance Act (Cap. 142), respectively.

 (2) A designated financial holding company shall have capital
funds of not less than the highest amount of the paid‑up capital which
any of its subsidiaries that is a bank incorporated in Singapore or a
licensed insurer incorporated, formed or established in Singapore is
required to hold under the Banking Act or the Insurance Act,
respectively.

 (3) Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2), the Authority may,
from time to time, by notice in writing, require a designated financial
holding company or a class of designated financial holding
companies to maintain paid-up capital and capital funds in
Singapore of such amount, and in such manner as the Authority
considers appropriate, having regard to the risks arising from the
activities of the designated financial holding company and its FHC
group and such other factors as the Authority considers relevant.

 (4) A designated financial holding company shall not, without the
approval of the Authority —

       (a) reduce its paid-up capital; or

       (b) purchase or otherwise acquire shares issued by the
            designated financial holding company if such shares are
            to be held as treasury shares.

 (5) For the purposes of subsections (1), (2) and (3), a designated
financial holding company shall not maintain its paid‑up capital and
capital funds in any foreign currency or currencies without the
approval of the Authority.

 (6) Any designated financial holding company which fails to
comply with any requirement under subsection (1), (2) or (3) shall
immediately notify the Authority.

 (7) Where the designated financial holding company fails to
comply with subsection (1), (2) or (4), or any requirement under
subsection (3), the Authority may, without prejudice to
subsection (8), by notice in writing to the designated financial
holding company —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
60  NO. 13 OF 2013

       (a) restrict or suspend the activities of the designated financial
            holding company; or

       (b) give such other directions to the designated financial
            holding company as the Authority considers appropriate.

 (8) Any designated financial holding company which fails to
comply with —

       (a) subsection (1), (2) or (5);

       (b) any requirement of the Authority under subsection (3); or

       (c) any direction of the Authority under subsection (7),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every day or part thereof
during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (9) In this section, “paid-up capital” does not include any amount
that is represented by treasury shares.

Capital adequacy requirements

 36.—(1) The Authority may, from time to time, by notice in writing
to any designated financial holding company or a class of designated
financial holding companies, require the designated financial holding
company, or class of designated financial holding companies, to
maintain, on a consolidated basis in aggregate with any one or more
companies in which the designated financial holding company has a
major stake, as the Authority may determine, such amount of capital
adequacy, as calculated in the form and manner determined by the
Authority.

 (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the Authority may, if it
considers appropriate in the particular circumstances of a
designated financial holding company, or a class of designated
financial holding companies, having regard to —

       (a) the risks arising from the activities of the designated
            financial holding company and its FHC group, or of the
            class of designated financial holding companies and their
            respective FHC groups, as the case may be; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              61

       (b) such other factors as the Authority considers relevant,

vary the amount of capital adequacy to be maintained by that
designated financial holding company or class of designated financial
holding companies.

 (3) Where a designated financial holding company fails to comply
with any requirement under subsection (1) or (2), the Authority may,
without prejudice to subsection (4), by notice in writing to the
designated financial holding company —

       (a) restrict or suspend the activities of the designated financial
            holding company; or

       (b) give such other directions to the designated financial
            holding company as the Authority considers appropriate,
            and the designated financial holding company shall
            comply with such directions.

 (4) Any designated financial holding company which fails to
comply with —

       (a) any requirement of the Authority under subsection (1) or
            (2); or

       (b) any direction of the Authority under subsection (3),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every day or part thereof
during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (5) In subsection (1), “major stake” has the meaning as defined in
section 31(10).

Leverage ratio requirement

 37.—(1) The Authority may, from time to time, by notice in writing
to any designated financial holding company, or any class of
designated financial holding companies, require that its leverage
ratio must not be less than a specified amount as calculated in the
form and manner determined by the Authority.

 (2) Any person to whom a notice is issued under subsection (1)
shall comply with the notice.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
62  NO. 13 OF 2013

 (3) Where the Authority issues a notice under subsection (1) to a
class of designated financial holding companies, the Authority may
specify different minimum amounts of leverage ratios for different
companies within that class having regard to the risks arising from the
activities of the designated financial holding company and its FHC
group, the financial soundness of the designated financial holding
company and such other factors as the Authority may consider
relevant.

 (4) Any prescription of, or change in, the minimum amount of
leverage ratio under subsection (1) or (3) shall take effect only after
the expiration of 30 days’ notice to the designated financial holding
company of the Authority’s intention to take such action.

 (5) Any designated financial holding company which fails to
comply with subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in the case
of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $25,000 for
every day or part thereof during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (6) In this section, “leverage ratio” means the ratio of the capital to
the exposures of the designated financial holding company, as
calculated in the form and manner determined by the Authority.

Power of Authority to secure compliance with any provision in
this Part

 38.—(1) Any designated financial holding company, if at any time
called upon in writing by the Authority to do so, shall satisfy the
Authority by the production of such evidence or information as it may
require, that the designated financial holding company is not in
contravention of any of the provisions in this Part.

 (2) Without prejudice to sections 34 to 37, the Authority may, for
the purposes of securing compliance with those sections on a
consolidated basis, from time to time by notice in writing, require any
designated financial holding company to aggregate, in such manner
as may be specified in the notice, its accounts, with all the accounts of
all or any of —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              63

       (a) the designated financial holding company’s related
            corporations; and

       (b) companies in which the designated financial holding
            company acquires or holds, directly or indirectly, a
            major stake as defined in section 31(10).

 (3) The designated financial holding company shall comply with
the requirement referred to in subsection (2) within such time as is
specified in the notice.

 (4) Any designated financial holding company which fails to
comply with subsection (1) or (3) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding
$25,000 for every day or part thereof during which the offence
continues after conviction.

 (5) In this section, “accounts” means any item on the profit and loss
accounts and balance-sheet.

                                   PART VII

         AUDIT, INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS

Annual account and audit

 39.—(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of the Companies Act
(Cap. 50), every designated financial holding company —

       (a) shall on an annual basis, appoint, and obtain the approval
            of the Authority for the appointment of, an auditor; and

       (b) where, for any reason, the auditor ceases to act for the
            designated financial holding company, shall, as soon as
            practicable thereafter, appoint another auditor approved by
            the Authority.

 (2) An auditor shall not be approved by the Authority as an auditor
for a designated financial holding company unless the auditor is able
to comply with such conditions in relation to the discharge of his
duties as may be determined by the Authority.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
64  NO. 13 OF 2013

 (3) The Authority may appoint an auditor —

       (a) if the designated financial holding company fails to
            appoint an auditor; or

       (b) if it considers it desirable that another auditor should act
            with the auditor appointed under subsection (1),

and may at any time fix the remuneration to be paid by the designated
financial holding company to the auditor.

 (4) The duties of an auditor appointed under subsections (1) and (3)
shall be —

       (a) to carry out, for the year in respect of which he is
            appointed, an audit of the accounts of the designated
            financial holding company;

       (b) to make a report in accordance with section 207 of the
            Companies Act, or if the Companies Act does not apply, in
            accordance with that section with the necessary
            modifications, upon the latest audited annual balance-
            sheet and profit and loss account, together with any notes
            thereon, of the designated financial holding company; and

       (c) to prepare such statements of account and other statement
            and in such form and manner as may be specified by the
            Authority and lodge them with the Authority.

 (5) The Authority may, by notice in writing, impose all or any of the
following duties on an auditor:

       (a) a duty to submit such additional information to the
            Authority in relation to his audit as the Authority
            considers necessary;

       (b) a duty to enlarge or extend the scope of his audit of the
            business and affairs of the designated financial holding
            company;

       (c) a duty to carry out any other examination or establish any
            procedure in any particular case;

       (d) a duty to submit a report on any of the matters referred to in
            paragraphs (b) and (c).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              65

 (6) An auditor to whom a notice is given under subsection (5) shall
comply with such direction or directions as may be specified in the
notice.

 (7) The designated financial holding company shall remunerate the
auditor in respect of the discharge by him of all or any of the
additional duties mentioned in subsection (5).

 (8) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act or the
provisions of the Companies Act, the Authority may, if it is not
satisfied with the performance of duties by an auditor appointed by a
designated financial holding company —

       (a) at any time direct the designated financial holding
            company to remove the auditor; and

       (b) direct the designated financial holding company, as soon as
            practicable thereafter, to appoint another auditor, and the
            designated financial holding company shall comply with
            such direction.

 (9) An auditor’s report made under subsection (4) shall be attached
to the balance-sheet and the profit and loss account and a copy thereof
together with any report submitted under subsection (5) shall be
transmitted in writing to the Authority.

 (10) If an auditor, in the course of the performance of his duties as
an auditor of a designated financial holding company, is satisfied
that —

       (a) there has been a serious contravention of any provision of
            this Act or that an offence involving fraud or dishonesty
            has been committed;

       (b) losses have been incurred which reduce the capital funds of
            the designated financial holding company by 50% or more;

       (c) serious irregularities have occurred, including
            irregularities that jeopardise the security of the creditors
            of the designated financial holding company; or

       (d) he is unable to confirm that the claims of creditors of the
            designated financial holding company are still covered by
            the assets,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
66  NO. 13 OF 2013

he shall immediately report the matter to the Authority.

 (11) Any designated financial holding company which contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

 (12) Any auditor who contravenes subsection (4), (6) or (10) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every day or part thereof
during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (13) Any designated financial holding company which fails to
comply with a direction under subsection (8) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$250,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $25,000 for every day or part thereof during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Inspection of designated financial holding companies and other
companies within FHC group

 40. The Authority may, from time to time, inspect under conditions
of secrecy —

       (a) the books of any designated financial holding company
            and any other company within its FHC group which is a
            financial institution; and

       (b) any branch, agency or office outside Singapore opened by
            any designated financial holding company or any other
            company within its FHC group, referred to in
            paragraph (a).

Special investigation of designated financial holding companies

 41. The Authority may at any time make an investigation, under
conditions of secrecy, of the books of any designated financial
holding company and any other company within its FHC group, if the
Authority has reason to believe that any designated financial holding
company is contravening the provisions of this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              67

Provisions supplementary to sections 40 and 41

 42.—(1) For the purposes of an inspection under section 40 or an
investigation under section 41, the designated financial holding
company or a company within its FHC group shall —

       (a) produce its books to the Authority and afford the Authority
            access thereto;

       (b) provide such information or facilities as may be required
            by the Authority to conduct the inspection or investigation;
            and

       (c) in the case where the books are not in the possession of the
            designated financial holding company or the company
            within the FHC group, as the case may be, procure that any
            person who is in possession of such books produce the
            books to the Authority and give such information and
            facilities as may be required by the Authority.

 (2) The books referred to in subsection (1) shall not be required to
be produced at such times or at such places as would unduly interfere
with the proper conduct of the normal daily business of that
designated financial holding company or that company within the
FHC group, as the case may be.

 (3) The Authority may appoint any person to exercise the powers of
the Authority under section 40 or 41.

 (4) The remuneration and expenses of the person appointed under
subsection (3) shall be paid by the designated financial holding
company.

 (5) The Authority may make copies of, or take possession of, any of
the books produced to it under subsection (1).

 (6) Any designated financial holding company or any company
within the FHC group which, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every
day or part thereof during which the offence continues after
conviction.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
68  NO. 13 OF 2013

 (7) Where the offence under subsection (6) is proved to have been
committed with the consent of, or to be attributable to any negligence
on the part of an officer of the company, that officer shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $5,000 for every day or part thereof during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Inspection in Singapore by foreign supervisory authority

 43.—(1) In relation to a designated financial holding company any
of the holding companies of which is incorporated outside Singapore,
a foreign supervisory authority may, with the prior written approval
of the Authority and under conditions of secrecy, conduct an
inspection in Singapore of the books of any branch or office of that
designated financial holding company, and any other company within
its FHC group which is a financial institution, in accordance with this
section if the following conditions are satisfied:

       (a) the inspection is required by the foreign supervisory
            authority for the sole purpose of carrying out its
            supervisory functions;

       (b) the foreign supervisory authority —

               (i) is prohibited by the laws applicable to the foreign
                   supervisory authority from disclosing information
                   obtained by it in the course of the inspection to any
                   other person; and

              (ii) has given to the Authority such written undertaking,
                   as to the confidentiality of the information obtained,
                   as the Authority may determine; and

       (c) the foreign supervisory authority has given a written
            undertaking to the Authority to comply with the provisions
            of this Act and such conditions as the Authority may
            impose under subsection (2).

 (2) The Authority may at any time, whether before, on or after
giving written approval for an inspection under this section, require

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              69

the foreign supervisory authority to comply with conditions relating
to —

       (a) the classes of information to which the foreign supervisory
            authority shall or shall not have access in the course of the
            inspection;

       (b) the conduct of the inspection;

       (c) the use or disclosure of any information obtained in the
            course of the inspection; and

       (d) such other matters as the Authority may determine.

 (3) Subject to compliance by a foreign supervisory authority with
such conditions as the Authority may impose under subsection (2), a
designated financial holding company, or any other company within
its FHC group which is a financial institution under inspection —

       (a) shall afford the foreign supervisory authority access to
            such books of the branch or office of the designated
            financial holding company or company under inspection,
            as the case may be, and provide such information
            (including information relating to the internal control
            systems of the designated financial holding company or
            company, as the case may be) and facilities as may be
            required to conduct the inspection; and

       (b) shall not be required to afford the foreign supervisory
            authority access to its books or to provide information or
            facilities at such times or at such places as would unduly
            interfere with the proper conduct of the normal daily
            business of the designated financial holding company or
            company under inspection, as the case may be.

 (4) A foreign supervisory authority may, with the prior written
approval of the Authority, appoint any person to conduct the
inspection under subsection (1) and in such event, this section
(other than this subsection) shall apply to the person as if a reference
to the foreign supervisory authority in this section includes a
reference to the person.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
70  NO. 13 OF 2013

 (5) A designated financial holding company, or any other company
within its FHC group which is a financial institution which, without
reasonable excuse, contravenes subsection (3)(a) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part thereof during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (5A) To avoid doubt, this section, and section 44 in relation to an
inspection under this section, do not apply to any inspection by a
foreign supervisory authority of the books of any branch or office of a
designated financial holding company, if —

       (a) the foreign supervisory authority is an AML/CFT authority
            as defined in section 152 of the Monetary Authority of
            Singapore Act (Cap. 186), and exercises consolidated
            supervision authority as defined in that section over the
            company; and

       (b) the inspection is solely for the purpose of such
            consolidated supervision.

                                                                               [Act 31 of 2017 wef 30/06/2022]

 (6) In this section, “foreign supervisory authority” means the
supervisory authority of a holding company of the designated
financial holding company referred to in subsection (1), which is
responsible, under the laws of the country or territory where the
holding company is incorporated, for —

       (a) supervising the holding company; and

       (b) exercising consolidated supervision over the holding
            company and all its subsidiaries which are financial
            institutions, including the designated financial holding
            company.

Confidentiality of inspection and investigation reports

 44.—(1) Where a written report or any part thereof (referred to in
this section as the report) has been produced in respect of any
designated financial holding company or any other company within
its FHC group —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              71

       (a) by the Authority upon an inspection under section 40 or an
            investigation under section 41; or

       (b) by the foreign supervisory authority upon an inspection
            under section 43,

the report shall not be disclosed by the designated financial holding
company or the company within the FHC group, as the case may be,
or any officer or auditor of the designated financial holding company
or the company within the FHC group, as the case may be, to any
other person except in the circumstances provided under
subsection (2).

 (2) Disclosure of the report referred to in subsection (1) may be
made —

       (a) by the designated financial holding company or the
            company within the FHC group, as the case may be, to
            any officer or auditor approved under section 39 of that
            designated financial holding company or that company
            within the FHC group, as the case may be, solely in
            connection with the performance of the duties of the officer
            or auditor, as the case may be, in that designated financial
            holding company or that company within the FHC group,
            as the case may be;

       (b) by any officer or auditor approved under section 39 of the
            designated financial holding company or the company
            within the FHC group, as the case may be, to any other
            officer or auditor of that designated financial holding
            company or that company within the FHC group, as the
            case may be, solely in connection with the performance of
            their duties in that designated financial holding company
            or that company within the FHC group, as the case may be;
            or

       (c) to any other person as the Authority may approve in
            writing.

 (3) In granting written approval for any disclosure under
subsection (2)(c), the Authority may impose such conditions as it
considers appropriate.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
72  NO. 13 OF 2013

 (4) The obligation on an officer or auditor referred to in
subsection (1) shall continue after the termination or cessation of
his employment or appointment at the designated financial holding
company or that company within the FHC group, as the case may be.

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or fails to comply
with any condition imposed by the Authority under subsection (3)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 years or to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000.

 (6) Any person to whom the report is disclosed and who knows or
has reasonable grounds for believing, at the time of the disclosure,
that the report was disclosed to him in contravention of subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $50,000
            or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
            both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000,

unless the person proves that —

        (i) the disclosure was made contrary to that person’s desire;

       (ii) where the disclosure was made in any written form, the
            person has as soon as practicable surrendered or taken all
            reasonable steps to surrender the report and all copies
            thereof to the Authority; and

      (iii) where the disclosure was made in an electronic form, the
            person has as soon as practicable taken all reasonable steps
            to ensure that all electronic copies of the report have been
            deleted and that the report and all copies thereof in other
            forms have been surrendered to the Authority.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              73

                                  PART VIII

           POWERS OF CONTROL OVER DESIGNATED
                 FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES

Interpretation of this Part

 45. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “business” includes affairs and property;

      “office-holder”, in relation to a designated financial holding
         company, means any person acting in relation to the
         designated financial holding company as its liquidator,
         provisional liquidator, receiver, receiver and manager or an
         equivalent person;

      “relevant business” means any business of a designated financial
         holding company —

              (a) which the Authority has assumed control of under
                   section 47(2)(c); or

              (b) in relation to which a statutory adviser or a statutory
                   manager has been appointed under section 47(2)(b)
                   or (c);

      “statutory adviser” means a statutory adviser appointed under
         section 47;

      “statutory manager” means a statutory manager appointed under
         section 47.

Information of insolvency, etc.

 46. Any designated financial holding company which is or is likely
to become insolvent, or which is or is likely to become unable to meet
its obligations, or which has suspended or is about to suspend
payments, shall immediately inform the Authority of that fact.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
74  NO. 13 OF 2013

Action by Authority if designated financial holding company is
unable to meet obligations, etc.

 47.—(1) Where —

       (a) a designated financial holding company informs the
            Authority that it is or is likely to become insolvent, or
            that it is or is likely to become unable to meet its
            obligations, or that it has suspended or is about to
            suspend payments;

       (b) a designated financial holding company becomes unable to
            meet its obligations, or is insolvent, or suspends payments;

       (c) the Authority is of the opinion that the designated financial
            holding company —

               (i) is or is likely to become insolvent, or that it is or is
                   likely to become unable to meet its obligations, or
                   that it is about to suspend payments; or

              (ii) has contravened any of the provisions of this Act; or

       (d) the Authority considers it in the public interest to do so,

the Authority may exercise any one or more of the powers specified
in subsection (2) as appears to it to be necessary.

 (2) Subject to subsection (1), the Authority may —

       (a) require the designated financial holding company
            concerned immediately to take any action or to do or not
            to do any act or thing whatsoever in relation to its
            businesses, including —

               (i) suspending any payments, as the Authority may
                   consider necessary; and

              (ii) removing any of its directors or any executive officer
                   whom the Authority considers unfit to be associated
                   with it;

       (b) subject to subsection (3), appoint one or more persons as
            statutory adviser, on such terms and conditions as the
            Authority may specify, to advise the designated financial
            holding company on the proper management of such of the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              75

            businesses of the designated financial holding company as
            the Authority may determine; or

       (c) assume control of and manage such of the businesses of the
            designated financial holding company as the Authority
            may determine, or appoint one or more persons as statutory
            managers to do so on such terms and conditions as the
            Authority may specify.

 (3) Where the Authority appoints 2 or more persons as statutory
managers of a designated financial holding company, it shall specify
in the terms and conditions of the appointment which of the duties,
functions and powers of the statutory manager —

       (a) may be discharged or exercised by such persons jointly and
            severally;

       (b) shall be discharged or exercised by such persons jointly;
            and

       (c) shall be discharged or exercised by a specified person of
            such persons.

 (4) Where the Authority has exercised any power under
subsection (2), it may at any time do one or more of the following:

       (a) vary or revoke any requirement of, any appointment made
            by or any action taken by the Authority in the exercise of
            such power, on such terms and conditions as it may
            specify;

       (b) further exercise any of the powers under subsection (2);

       (c) add to, vary or revoke any term or condition specified by
            the Authority under this section.

 (5) Any designated financial holding company which fails to
comply with a direction issued by the Authority under
subsection (2)(a) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every
day or part thereof during which the offence continues after
conviction.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
76  NO. 13 OF 2013

 (6) No liability shall be incurred by —

       (a) a statutory manager; or

       (b) a statutory adviser,

for anything done (including any statement made) or omitted to be
done with reasonable care and in good faith in the course of or in
connection with —

        (i) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
            Act;

       (ii) the performance or purported performance of any function
            or duty under this Act; or

      (iii) the compliance or purported compliance with this Act.

Effect of assumption of control under section 47

 48.—(1) During the period when the Authority or statutory
manager is in control of the relevant business of a designated
financial holding company, the Authority or statutory manager shall
manage the relevant business of the designated financial holding
company in the name of and on behalf of the designated financial
holding company and shall be deemed to be an agent of the
designated financial holding company.

 (2) In managing the relevant business of a designated financial
holding company, the Authority or statutory manager shall have all
the duties, powers and functions of the members of the board of
directors of the designated financial holding company (collectively
and individually) under this Act, the Companies Act (Cap. 50) and the
constitution of the designated financial holding company, including
powers of delegation, in relation to the relevant business of the
designated financial holding company; but nothing in this subsection
shall require the Authority or statutory manager to call any meeting of
the designated financial holding company under the Companies Act
or the constitution of the designated financial holding company.

 (3) Notwithstanding any written law or rule of law, upon the
assumption of control of the relevant business of a designated
financial holding company by the Authority or statutory manager,
any appointment of a person as chief executive or director of the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              77

designated financial holding company which was in force
immediately before the assumption of control, shall be deemed to
be revoked unless the Authority gives its approval, by notice in
writing to the person and the designated financial holding company,
for the person to remain in the appointment.

 (4) Notwithstanding any written law or rule of law, during the
period when the Authority or statutory manager is in control of the
relevant business of a designated financial holding company, no
person shall be appointed as chief executive or director of the
designated financial holding company, in so far as the appointment
relates to the relevant business of the designated financial holding
company, except with the approval of the Authority.

 (5) Where the Authority has given its approval under subsection (3)
or (4) to a person to remain in the appointment of, or to be appointed
as, chief executive or director of a designated financial holding
company, the Authority may at any time, by notice in writing to the
person, revoke its approval and such appointment shall be deemed to
be revoked on the date specified in the notice.

 (6) Notwithstanding any written law or rule of law, if any person
whose appointment as chief executive or director of a designated
financial holding company is revoked under subsection (3) or (5) acts
or purports to act after the revocation, as chief executive or director of
the designated financial holding company in relation to the relevant
business of the designated financial holding company, during the
period when the Authority or statutory manager is in control of the
relevant business of the designated financial holding company —

       (a) the act or purported act of the person shall be invalid and of
            no effect; and

       (b) the person shall be guilty of an offence.

 (7) Notwithstanding any written law or rule of law, if any person
who is appointed as chief executive or director of a designated
financial holding company in contravention of subsection (4) acts or
purports to act, as chief executive or director of the designated
financial holding company in relation to the relevant business of the
designated financial holding company, during the period when the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
78  NO. 13 OF 2013

Authority or statutory manager is in control of the relevant business
of the designated financial holding company —

       (a) the act or purported act of the person shall be invalid and of
            no effect; and

       (b) the person shall be guilty of an offence.

 (8) During the period when the Authority or statutory manager is in
control of the relevant business of a designated financial holding
company —

       (a) if there is any conflict or inconsistency between —

               (i) a direction or decision given by the Authority or
                   statutory manager (including a direction or decision
                   to a person or body of persons referred to in
                   sub‑paragraph (ii)); and

              (ii) a direction or decision given by any chief executive,
                   director, member, executive officer, employee, agent
                   or office‑holder, or the board of directors, of the
                   designated financial holding company, or any trustee
                   for the designated financial holding company,

       (a) the direction or decision referred to in sub‑paragraph (i)
            shall, to the extent of the conflict or inconsistency, prevail
            over the direction or decision referred to in
            sub‑paragraph (ii); and

       (b) no person shall exercise any voting or other right attached
            to any share in the designated financial holding company in
            any manner that may defeat or interfere with any duty,
            function or power of the Authority or statutory manager,
            and any such act or purported act shall be invalid and of no
            effect.

 (9) Any person who contravenes subsection (8)(b) shall be guilty of
an offence.

 (10) Any person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (6),
(7) or (8) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              79

exceeding $12,500 for every day or part thereof during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (11) In this section, “constitution of the designated financial
holding company” means the memorandum of association and
articles of association of the designated financial holding company
or other instrument under which the designated financial holding
company is incorporated, formed or established.

Duration of control

 49.—(1) The Authority shall cease to be in control of the relevant
business of a designated financial holding company when the
Authority is satisfied that the reasons for its assumption of control
of the relevant business have ceased to exist.

 (2) A statutory manager shall be deemed to have assumed control of
the relevant business of a designated financial holding company on
the date of his appointment as a statutory manager.

 (3) The appointment of a statutory manager in relation to the
relevant business of a designated financial holding company may be
revoked by the Authority at any time —

       (a) if the Authority is satisfied that the reasons for the
            appointment have ceased to exist; or

       (b) on any other ground,

and upon such revocation, the statutory manager shall cease to be in
control of the relevant business of the designated financial holding
company.

 (4) The Authority shall publish in the Gazette the date, and such
other particulars as it thinks fit, of —

       (a) its assumption of control of the relevant business of a
            designated financial holding company;

       (b) the cessation of its control of the relevant business of a
            designated financial holding company;

       (c) the appointment of a statutory manager in relation to the
            relevant business of a designated financial holding
            company; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
80  NO. 13 OF 2013

       (d) the revocation of a statutory manager’s appointment in
            relation to the relevant business of a designated financial
            holding company.

Responsibilities of officers, member, etc., of designated
financial holding company

 50.—(1) During the period when the Authority or statutory
manager is in control of the relevant business of a designated
financial holding company —

       (a) the General Division of the High Court may, on an
            application of the Authority or statutory manager, direct
            any person who has ceased to be or who is still a chief
            executive, director, member, executive officer, employee,
            agent, banker, auditor or office‑holder of, or trustee for, the
            designated financial holding company to pay, deliver,
            convey, surrender or transfer to the Authority or statutory
            manager, within such period as the General Division of the
            High Court may specify, any property or book of the
            designated financial holding company which is comprised
            in, forms part of or relates to the relevant business of the
            designated financial holding company, and which is in his
            possession or control; and

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2019 wef 30/06/2022]

       (b) any person who has ceased to be or who is still a chief
            executive, director, member, executive officer, employee,
            agent, banker, auditor or office‑holder of, or trustee for, the
            designated financial holding company shall give to the
            Authority or statutory manager such information as the
            Authority or statutory manager may require for the
            discharge of its or his duties or functions, or the exercise
            of its or his powers, in relation to the designated financial
            holding company, within such time and in such manner as
            may be specified by the Authority or statutory manager.

 (2) Any person who —

       (a) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
            subsection (1)(b); or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              81

       (b) in purported compliance with subsection (1)(b), knowingly
            or recklessly furnishes any information or document that is
            false or misleading in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or part thereof during which
the offence continues after conviction.

Remuneration and expenses of Authority and others in certain
cases

 51. The Authority may at any time fix the remuneration and
expenses to be paid by a designated financial holding company —

       (a) to a statutory adviser or statutory manager appointed in
            relation to the designated financial holding company,
            whether or not the appointment has been revoked; and

       (b) where the Authority has assumed control of the relevant
            business of the designated financial holding company, to
            the Authority and any person appointed by the Authority
            under section 61 in relation to its assumption of control of
            the relevant business, whether or not the Authority has
            ceased to be in control of the relevant business.

Winding up where designated financial holding company is
co‑operative society

 52.—(1) Where a designated financial holding company is a
co‑operative society, no proceedings for the transfer of assets and
liabilities, dissolution or winding up of the co-operative society shall
be taken under sections 74, 75 and 83 to 89 of the Co‑operative
Societies Act (Cap. 62).

 (2) Notwithstanding section 101 of the Co‑operative Societies Act,
any designated financial holding company that is a co‑operative
society shall be deemed to be an unregistered company within the
meaning of Part 10 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
Act 2018 and may be wound up by the Court under the Insolvency,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
82  NO. 13 OF 2013

Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 (as modified by this section)
and the applicable provisions of this Part.

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2018 wef 30/06/2022]

 (3) In any winding up —

       (a) in applying the provisions of the Insolvency, Restructuring
            and Dissolution Act 2018, any reference to the Registrar of
            Companies is to be read as a reference to the Registrar
            under the Co‑operative Societies Act;

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2018 wef 30/06/2022]

       (b) [Deleted by Act 40 of 2018 wef 30/06/2022]

       (c) upon winding up of the society, the assets shall be applied
            first to the cost of liquidation, then to the discharge of the
            liabilities of the society, then to the payment of the share
            capital or subscription capital, and then, provided that the
            by-laws of the society permit, to the payment of a dividend
            or patronage refund at a rate not exceeding that laid down
            in the rules made under the Co‑operative Societies Act or
            in the by‑laws for any period during which no dividend or
            patronage refund was in fact paid; and

       (d) any moneys remaining after the application of the funds to
            the purposes specified in paragraph (c), shall be carried to
            the Co‑operative Societies Liquidation Account kept by
            the Registrar and section 89(4) and (5) of the Co‑operative
            Societies Act shall apply to deal with the moneys in the
            Co‑operative Societies Liquidation Account.

 (3A) Despite subsection (2) and section 101 of the Co‑operative
Societies Act, in any winding up of a designated financial holding
company that is a co‑operative society, section 344 of the Companies
Act is applicable and in applying this provision —

       (a) any reference to the register under the Companies Act is to
            be read as a reference to the register of societies mentioned
            in section 10A(1)(a) of the Co‑operative Societies Act; and

       (b) any reference to the Registrar under the Companies Act is
            to be read as a reference to the Registrar under the Co-
            operative Societies Act.

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2018 wef 30/06/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              83

 (4) In this section, “Court” means the General Division of the High
Court.

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2019 wef 30/06/2022]

                                   PART IX

  ASSISTANCE TO FOREIGN REGULATORY AUTHORITIES

Interpretation of this Part

 53. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “enforce” means enforce through criminal, civil or
         administrative proceedings;

      “enforcement” means the taking of any action to enforce a law or
         regulatory requirement against a specified person, being a
         law or regulatory requirement that relates to the financial
         holding companies in the foreign country of the regulatory
         authority concerned;

      “foreign country” means a country or territory other than
         Singapore;

      “investigation” means an investigation to determine if a
         specified person has contravened or is contravening a law
         or regulatory requirement, being a law or regulatory
         requirement that relates to the financial holding companies
         in the foreign country of the regulatory authority concerned;

      “material” includes any book or information in any form
         whatsoever, and any container or article relating thereto;

      “prescribed written law” means this Act, or any of the following
         written laws and any subsidiary legislation made thereunder:

              (a) Banking Act (Cap. 19);

              (b) Finance Companies Act (Cap. 108);

              (c) Financial Advisers Act (Cap. 110);

            (ca) Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

                                                                               [Act 18 of 2022 wef 28/04/2023]

              (d) Insurance Act (Cap. 142);

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
84  NO. 13 OF 2013

              (e) Monetary Authority of Singapore Act (Cap. 186);

              (f) Payment Services Act 2019;

                                                                                 [Act 2 of 2019 wef 30/06/2022]

              (g) Securities and Futures Act (Cap. 289); or

              (h) such other Act as the Authority may prescribe;

      “regulatory authority”, in relation to a foreign country, means an
         authority of the foreign country exercising any function that
         corresponds to a regulatory function of the Authority under
         this Act;

      “supervision”, in relation to a regulatory authority, means the
         taking of any action for or in connection with the supervision
         of a subject-matter in the foreign country of the regulatory
         authority similar to that to which this Act pertains.

Application of this Part

 53A. This Part does not apply to any request for assistance
mentioned in section 154(1) of the Monetary Authority of
Singapore Act.

                                                                               [Act 31 of 2017 wef 30/06/2022]

Conditions for provision of assistance

 54.—(1) The Authority may provide the assistance referred to in
section 56 to a regulatory authority of a foreign country if the
Authority is satisfied that all of the following conditions are fulfilled:

       (a) the request by the regulatory authority for assistance is
            received by the Authority on or after the date of
            commencement of this Act;

       (b) the assistance is intended to enable the regulatory
            authority, or any other authority of the foreign country,
            to carry out supervision, investigation or enforcement;

       (c) the contravention of the law or regulatory requirement to
            which the request relates took place on or after the date of
            commencement of this Act;

       (d) the regulatory authority has given a written undertaking
            that any material or copy thereof obtained pursuant to its

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              85

            request shall not be used for any purpose other than a
            purpose that is specified in the request and approved by the
            Authority;

       (e) the regulatory authority has given a written undertaking
            not to disclose to a third party (other than a designated third
            party of the foreign country in accordance with
            paragraph (f)) any material received pursuant to the
            request unless the regulatory authority is compelled to
            do so by the law or a court of the foreign country;

        (f) the regulatory authority has given a written undertaking to
            obtain the prior consent of the Authority before disclosing
            any material received pursuant to the request to a
            designated third party, and to make such disclosure only
            in accordance with such conditions as may be imposed by
            the Authority;

       (g) the material requested for is of sufficient importance to the
            carrying out of the supervision, investigation or
            enforcement to which the request relates and cannot
            reasonably be obtained by any other means;

       (h) the matter to which the request relates is of sufficient
            gravity; and

        (i) the rendering of assistance will not be contrary to the
            public interest.

 (2) In subsection (1)(e) and (f), “designated third party”, in relation
to a foreign country, means —

       (a) any person or body responsible for supervising the
            regulatory authority in question;

       (b) any authority of the foreign country responsible for
            carrying out the supervision, investigation or
            enforcement in question; or

       (c) any authority of the foreign country exercising a function
            that corresponds to a regulatory function of the Authority
            under this Act.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
86  NO. 13 OF 2013

Other factors to consider for provision of assistance

 55. In deciding whether to grant a request for assistance referred to
in section 56 from a regulatory authority of a foreign country, the
Authority may also have regard to the following:

       (a) whether the act or omission that is alleged to constitute the
            contravention of the law or regulatory requirement to
            which the request relates would, if it had occurred in
            Singapore, have constituted an offence under this Act;

       (b) whether the regulatory authority has given or is willing to
            give an undertaking to the Authority to comply with a
            future request by the Authority to the regulatory authority
            for similar assistance;

       (c) whether the regulatory authority has given or is willing to
            give an undertaking to the Authority to contribute towards
            the costs of providing the assistance that the regulatory
            authority has requested for.

Assistance that may be rendered

 56.—(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any prescribed written
law or any requirement imposed thereunder or any rule of law, the
Authority or any person authorised by the Authority may, in relation
to a request by a regulatory authority of a foreign country for
assistance —

       (a) transmit to the regulatory authority any material in the
            possession of the Authority that is requested by the
            regulatory authority or a copy thereof;

       (b) order any person to furnish to the Authority any material
            that is requested by the regulatory authority or a copy
            thereof, and transmit the material or copy to the regulatory
            authority;

       (c) order any person to transmit directly to the regulatory
            authority any material that is requested by the regulatory
            authority or a copy thereof;

       (d) order any person to make an oral statement to the Authority
            on any information requested by the regulatory authority,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              87

            record such statement, and transmit the recorded statement
            to the regulatory authority; or

       (e) request any ministry or department of the Government, or
            any statutory authority in Singapore, to furnish to the
            Authority any material that is requested by the regulatory
            authority or a copy thereof, and transmit the material or
            copy to the regulatory authority.

 (2) The assistance referred to in subsection (1)(c) may only be
rendered if the material sought is to enable the regulatory authority to
carry out investigation or enforcement.

 (3) An order under subsection (1)(b), (c) or (d) shall have effect
notwithstanding any obligation as to secrecy or other restriction upon
the disclosure of information imposed by any prescribed written law
or any requirement imposed thereunder, any rule of law, any contract
or any rule of professional conduct.

 (4) Nothing in this section shall compel an advocate and solicitor or
a legal counsel referred to in section 128A of the Evidence Act
(Cap. 97) —

       (a) to furnish or transmit any material or copy thereof that
            contains; or

       (b) to disclose,

a privileged communication made by or to him in that capacity.

 (5) An advocate and solicitor or a legal counsel referred to in
section 128A of the Evidence Act who refuses to disclose, or to
furnish or transmit any material or copy thereof that contains, any
privileged communication shall nevertheless be obliged to give the
name and address (if he knows them) of the person to whom, or by or
on behalf of whom, the privileged communication was made.

 (6) A person is not excused from making an oral statement pursuant
to an order made under subsection (1)(d) on the ground that the
statement might tend to incriminate him but, where the person claims
before making the statement that the statement might tend to
incriminate him, that statement is not admissible in evidence

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
88  NO. 13 OF 2013

against him in criminal proceedings other than proceedings for an
offence under section 57.

Offences under this Part

 57.—(1) Any person who —

       (a) without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to comply with
            an order under section 56(1)(b), (c) or (d); or

       (b) in purported compliance with an order —

               (i) under section 56(1)(b) or (c), furnishes to the
                   Authority, or transmits to the regulatory authority,
                   any material or copy thereof that is false or
                   misleading in a material particular; or

              (ii) under section 56(1)(d), makes a statement to the
                   Authority that is false or misleading in a material
                   particular,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) Any person guilty of an offence under subsection (1)(a) shall be
liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $50,000; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

 (3) Any person guilty of an offence under subsection (1)(b) shall be
liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 years or to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000.

 (4) Notwithstanding subsection (3), an individual shall not be
sentenced to imprisonment for an offence under subsection (1)(b)
unless he committed the offence wilfully.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              89

Immunities

 58.—(1) No civil or criminal proceedings, other than proceedings
for an offence under section 57, shall lie against any person for —

       (a) furnishing to the Authority or transmitting any material or
            copy thereof to the Authority or a regulatory authority of a
            foreign country if he had furnished or transmitted that
            material or copy in good faith in compliance with an order
            made under section 56(1)(b) or (c);

       (b) making a statement to the Authority in good faith and in
            compliance with an order made under section 56(1)(d); or

       (c) doing or omitting to do any act, if he had done or omitted to
            do the act in good faith and as a result of complying with
            such an order.

 (2) Any person who complies with an order referred to in
subsection (1)(a) or (b) shall not be treated as being in breach of
any restriction upon the disclosure of information or thing imposed
by any prescribed written law or any requirement imposed
thereunder, any rule of law, any contract or any rule of professional
conduct.

                                    PART X

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Regulations

 59.—(1) The Authority may, from time to time, make such
regulations as may be necessary or expedient for carrying out the
purposes and provisions of this Act and for prescribing anything that
may be required or authorised to be prescribed by this Act.

 (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1),
regulations may be made for or with respect to —

       (a) the corporate governance, and the appointment and
            removal of directors and executive officers, of
            designated financial holding companies, their related
            corporations or other companies in which the designated

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
90  NO. 13 OF 2013

            financial holding company acquire or hold, directly or
            indirectly, a major stake as defined in section 31(10); and

       (b) the prohibition or restriction on mutual shareholdings held
            between the designated financial holding companies,
            related corporations and other companies referred to in
            paragraph (a).

 (3) Regulations made under this section —

       (a) may relate to all, or any class, category or description of
            persons or designated financial holding companies; and

       (b) may make different provisions for different classes,
            categories or descriptions of persons or designated
            financial holding companies or to a particular person or
            designated financial holding company or be of general or
            specifically limited application.

 (4) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, regulations
made under this section may provide that any contravention thereof
shall be an offence punishable —

       (a) in the case of an individual, with a fine not exceeding
            $50,000 or with imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            2 years or with both and, in the case of a continuing
            offence, with a further fine not exceeding $5,000 for every
            day or part thereof during which the offence continues after
            conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, with a fine not exceeding $100,000 and,
            in the case of a continuing offence, with a further fine not
            exceeding $10,000 for every day or part thereof during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

Notices to designated financial holding company

 60.—(1) The Authority may, if it appears to the Authority to be
necessary or expedient in the public interest, or in the interest of a
FHC group or the financial system in Singapore, by notice in writing
to a designated financial holding company or a class of designated
financial holding companies give directions or impose requirements
on or relating to the operations or activities of, or the standards to be

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              91

maintained by, the designated financial holding company or
designated financial holding companies.

 (2) A designated financial holding company shall comply with any
direction given to the designated financial holding company or any
requirement imposed on the designated financial holding company by
any notice issued under this Act.

 (3) Any designated financial holding company which fails to
comply with subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in the case
of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $10,000 for
every day or part thereof during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (4) It shall not be necessary to publish any notice issued under this
Act in the Gazette.

Appointment of assistants

 61.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the Authority may appoint any
person to exercise any of its powers or perform any of its functions or
duties under this Act, either generally or in any particular case, except
the power to make subsidiary legislation.

 (2) The Authority may appoint one or more of its officers to
exercise the power to grant an exemption to any person (not being an
exemption granted to a class of persons) under section 74(2), or to
revoke any such exemption.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (2A) An appointment under subsection (2) must be published in the
Gazette.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (3) Any person appointed by the Authority under subsection (1)
shall be deemed to be a public servant for the purposes of the Penal
Code (Cap. 224).

Disqualification of directors and executive officers

 62.—(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other written law, a
designated financial holding company shall not, without the prior

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
92  NO. 13 OF 2013

written consent of the Authority, permit a person to act as its director
or executive officer if the person —

       (a) has been convicted before, on or after the date of
            commencement of this section, whether in Singapore or
            elsewhere of an offence —

               (i) involving fraud or dishonesty;

              (ii) the conviction for which involved a finding that he
                   had acted fraudulently or dishonestly; or

             (iii) specified in the Third Schedule to the Registration of
                   Criminals Act (Cap. 268);

       (b) is an undischarged bankrupt, whether in Singapore or
            elsewhere;

       (c) has had an enforcement order against him in respect of a
            judgement debt returned unsatisfied in whole or in part;

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 30/06/2022]

       (d) has, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, entered into a
            compromise or scheme of arrangement with his creditors,
            being a compromise or scheme of arrangement that is still
            in operation;

       (e) has had a prohibition order made against him that remains
            in force; or

                                                                               [Act 18 of 2022 wef 31/07/2024]

        (f) has been a director of, or directly concerned in the
            management of, a regulated financial institution, whether
            in Singapore or elsewhere —

               (i) which is being or has been, wound up by a court; or

              (ii) the approval, authorisation, designation, recognition,
                   registration or licence of which has been withdrawn,
                   cancelled or revoked by the Authority or, in the case
                   of a regulated financial institution in a foreign
                   country or territory, by the regulatory authority in
                   that foreign country or territory.

 (2) Any designated financial holding company which contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              93

conviction to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every
day or part thereof during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (3) In this section —

      “prohibition order” means —

              (a) a prohibition order made under section 68(1) of the
                   Financial Advisers Act 2001 as in force immediately
                   before the date of commencement of
                   section 200(1)(b) and (2) to (7) of the Financial
                   Services and Markets Act 2022;

              (b) a prohibition order made under section 68(1) of the
                   Financial Advisers Act 2001 as in force immediately
                   before the date of commencement of
                   section 200(1)(b) and (2) to (7) of the Financial
                   Services and Markets Act 2022, and as continued by
                   section 217(2) of the Financial Services and Markets
                   Act 2022;

              (c) an order made under section 74(1) of the Insurance
                   Act 1966 as in force immediately before the date of
                   commencement of section 204(1) to (4) of the
                   Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

              (d) an order made under section 74(1) of the Insurance
                   Act 1966 as in force immediately before the date of
                   commencement of section 204(1) to (4) of the
                   Financial Services and Markets Act 2022, and as
                   continued by section 218(2) of the Financial Services
                   and Markets Act 2022;

              (e) a prohibition order made under section 101A(1) of
                   the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force
                   immediately before the date of commencement of
                   section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and
                   (18) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

              (f) a prohibition order made under section 101A(1) of
                   the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
94  NO. 13 OF 2013

                   immediately before the date of commencement of
                   section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and
                   (18) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022,
                   and as continued by section 220(3) of the Financial
                   Services and Markets Act 2022;

              (g) a prohibition order made under section 123ZZC(1) of
                   the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force
                   immediately before the date of commencement of
                   section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and
                   (18) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

              (h) a prohibition order made under section 123ZZC(1) of
                   the Securities and Futures Act 2001 as in force
                   immediately before the date of commencement of
                   section 209(1)(a), (c) and (d), (4) to (14), (17) and
                   (18) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022,
                   and as continued by section 220(5) of the Financial
                   Services and Markets Act 2022; or

              (i) a prohibition order made under section 7(1) of the
                   Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

                                                                               [Act 18 of 2022 wef 31/07/2024]

      “regulatory authority”, in relation to a foreign country, has the
         same meaning as that defined in section 53;

      “regulated financial institution” means a financial institution
         that carries on a business the conduct of which is regulated or
         authorised, or subject to oversight, by the Authority or, if
         carried on in Singapore, would be regulated or authorised, or
         subject to oversight, by the Authority.

Appointment and removal of chief executive and other persons

 63.—(1) Every designated financial holding company shall have a
chief executive who is principally responsible for the management
and conduct of the activities of its FHC group.

 (2) No designated financial holding company shall appoint a person
as director, chief executive or to such other position in the company
as may be prescribed, unless —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              95

       (a) the designated financial holding company satisfies the
            Authority that the person is a fit and proper person to be so
            appointed; and

       (b) the Authority has approved the appointment.

 (3) The Authority may grant its approval under subsection (2)(b),
with or without conditions, and may at any time add to, vary or revoke
any condition imposed.

 (4) A designated financial holding company shall immediately
inform the Authority where the designated financial holding
company is of the view that a person appointed under
subsection (2) is no longer a fit and proper person for the position
to which that person was appointed.

 (5) Notwithstanding any other written law, where the Authority is
satisfied that a person so approved under subsection (2) —

       (a) has wilfully contravened or wilfully caused the designated
            financial holding company to contravene any provision of
            this Act;

       (b) has, without reasonable excuse, failed to secure the
            compliance of the designated financial holding company
            with any provision of this Act, the Monetary Authority of
            Singapore Act (Cap. 186) or any of the written laws set out
            in the Schedule to that Act; or

       (c) has failed to discharge any of the duties of his office,

the Authority may, if it thinks it necessary in the public interest or the
interest of the FHC group concerned, direct the designated financial
holding company to remove the person from office or employment
within such period as may be specified by the Authority in the notice,
and the designated financial holding company shall comply with the
notice.

 (6) Without prejudice to any other matter that the Authority may
consider relevant, the Authority shall, in determining whether the
person so approved under subsection (2) has failed to discharge the
duties of his office for the purposes of subsection (5)(c), have regard
to such criteria as may be prescribed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
96  NO. 13 OF 2013

 (7) Before directing a designated financial holding company to
remove a person under subsection (5), the Authority shall —

       (a) give the designated financial holding company and the
            person, notice in writing of its intention to do so; and

       (b) in the notice referred to in paragraph (a), call upon the
            designated financial holding company and the person to
            show cause, within such time as may be specified by the
            Authority in the notice, why the person should not be
            removed.

 (8) If the designated financial holding company and the person
referred to in subsection (7) —

       (a) fail to show cause within the time specified in a notice
            issued under subsection (7) or within such extended period
            of time as the Authority may allow; or

       (b) fail to show sufficient cause,

the Authority may direct the designated financial holding company to
remove the person under subsection (5).

 (9) Any person who is aggrieved by a direction of the Authority
under subsection (5) may, within 30 days after receiving the direction,
appeal in writing to the Minister whose decision shall be final.

 (10) Any designated financial holding company which contravenes
subsection (1) or (2), or fails to comply with any condition of
approval imposed under subsection (3), shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

 (11) Any designated financial holding company which contravenes
subsection (4) or (5) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $25,000 for every
day or part thereof during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (12) No criminal or civil liability shall be incurred by a designated
financial holding company, or any person acting on behalf of the
designated financial holding company, in respect of anything done or
omitted to be done with reasonable care and in good faith in the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              97

discharge or purported discharge of the obligations of the designated
financial holding company under this section.

Offences by directors and executive officers of designated
financial holding companies and false or misleading
information, etc.

 64.—(1) Subject to subsection (5), any director or executive officer
of a designated financial holding company who fails to take all
reasonable steps to secure compliance by the designated financial
holding company with any provision of this Act or any other written
law administered by the Authority that is applicable to designated
financial holding companies in Singapore shall, if such failure is not
already an offence under any other provision of this Act, be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both.

 (2) Any person who —

       (a) furnishes the Minister or the Authority with any
            information or document under or for the purposes of
            any provision of this Act which is false or misleading in a
            material particular; and

       (b) does not use due care to ensure that the information or
            document referred to in paragraph (a) is not false or
            misleading in any material particular,

shall, if the furnishing of such information or document which is false
or misleading in a material particular is not already an offence under
any other provision of this Act, be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $125,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

 (3) In any proceedings against a person under subsection (1) or (2),
it shall be a defence for him to prove that —

       (a) he had reasonable grounds for believing that a competent
            and reliable person was charged with the duty of securing
            compliance with the provision of this Act or any other
            written law applicable to designated financial holding

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
98  NO. 13 OF 2013

            companies, or with the duty of ensuring that the
            information or document is not false or misleading in
            any material particular, as the case may be; and

       (b) the person referred to in paragraph (a) was in a position to
            discharge that duty.

 (4) A person shall not be sentenced to imprisonment for any offence
under subsection (1) or (2) unless, in the opinion of the court, he
committed the offence wilfully.

Offences by directors, employees and agents

 65. Any director, executive officer, trustee, auditor, employee or
agent of any designated financial holding company who —

       (a) wilfully makes or causes to be made a false entry in any
            book of record or in any report, slip, document or statement
            of the business, affairs, transactions, conditions, assets or
            accounts of that designated financial holding company;

       (b) wilfully omits to make an entry in any book of record or in
            any report, slip, document or statement of the business,
            affairs, transactions, conditions, assets or accounts of that
            designated financial holding company, or wilfully causes
            any such entry to be omitted; or

       (c) wilfully alters, abstracts, conceals or destroys an entry in
            any book of record or in any report, slip, document or
            statement of the business, affairs, transactions, conditions,
            assets or accounts of that designated financial holding
            company, or wilfully causes any such entry to be altered,
            abstracted, concealed or destroyed,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both.

Composition of offences

 66.—(1) The Authority may, in its discretion, compound any
offence under this Act which is prescribed as a compoundable
offence by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              99

committed the offence a sum of money not exceeding one half of the
amount of the maximum fine that is prescribed for the offence.

 (2) On payment of such sum of money, no further proceedings shall
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) The Authority may make regulations to prescribe the offences
which may be compounded.

 (4) All sums collected under this section shall be paid to the
Consolidated Fund.

General penalty

 67. Any designated financial holding company which contravenes
any of the provisions of this Act for which no penalty is expressly
provided shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every
day or part thereof during which the offence continues after
conviction.

Jurisdiction of court

 68. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in the Criminal
Procedure Code (Cap. 68), a District Court shall have jurisdiction to
try any offence under this Act and shall have power to impose the full
penalty or punishment in respect of the offence.

Consent of Public Prosecutor

 69. No prosecution in respect of any offence under this Act shall be
instituted except with the consent of the Public Prosecutor.

Recovery of fees, expenses, etc.

 70. There shall be recoverable as a civil debt due to the Authority
from the designated financial holding company concerned —

       (a) the amount of the levy payable under section 9; and

       (b) any remuneration and expenses payable by the designated
            financial holding company to —

               (i) any person appointed under section 42(3);

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
100  NO. 13 OF 2013

              (ii) a statutory adviser appointed under section 47(2);

             (iii) a statutory manager appointed under section 47(2);
                   and

             (iv) the Authority or any person appointed by the
                   Authority under section 61 in relation to the
                   Authority assuming control of any businesses of
                   the designated financial holding company under
                   section 47.

Operation of this Act not to affect Companies Act

 71.—(1) Except as expressly provided by this Act, nothing in this
Act shall affect the operation of the Companies Act (Cap. 50), and
any designated financial holding company that is liable to be
incorporated under that Act shall continue to be so liable as if this
Act had not been passed.

 (2) In case of conflict between the Companies Act and this Act, the
provisions of this Act shall prevail unless otherwise provided in this
Act.

Service of documents, etc.

 72.—(1) Any notice, order or document required or authorised by
this Act to be served on any person may be served —

       (a) by delivering it to the person or to some adult member or
            employee of his family or household at his last known
            place of residence;

       (b) by leaving it at his usual or last known place of residence or
            business in an envelope addressed to the person;

       (c) by sending it by registered post addressed to the person at
            his usual or last known place of residence or business; or

       (d) in the case of a company, a partnership or body of
            persons —

               (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other like officer
                   of the company, partnership or body of persons at its
                   registered office or principal place of business; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              101

              (ii) by sending it by registered post addressed to the
                   company, partnership or body of persons at its
                   registered office or principal place of business.

 (2) Any notice, order or document sent by registered post to any
person in accordance with subsection (1) shall be deemed to be duly
served on the person at the time when the notice, order or document,
as the case may be, would in the ordinary course of post be delivered.

 (3) When proving service of the notice, order or document referred
to in subsection (2), it shall be sufficient to prove that the envelope
containing the notice, order or document, as the case may be, was
properly addressed, stamped and posted by registered post.

Electronic service

 73.—(1) The Authority may provide an electronic service for the
service of any document that is required or authorised by this Act to
be served on any person.

 (2) For the purposes of the electronic service, the Authority may
assign to any person —

       (a) an authentication code; and

       (b) an account with the electronic service.

 (3) Notwithstanding section 72, where any person has given his
consent for any document to be served on him through the electronic
service, the Authority may serve the document on that person by
transmitting an electronic record of the document to that person’s
account with the electronic service.

 (4) Where a person has given his consent for a document to be
served on him through the electronic service, the document shall be
deemed to have been served at the time when an electronic record of
the document enters his account with the electronic service.

 (5) Notwithstanding any other written law, in any proceedings
under this Act —

       (a) an electronic record of any document that was served
            through the electronic service; or

       (b) any copy or print-out of that electronic record,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
102  NO. 13 OF 2013

shall be admissible as evidence of the facts stated or contained therein
if that electronic record, copy or print-out —

        (i) is certified by the Authority to contain all or any
            information served through the electronic service in
            accordance with this section; and

       (ii) is duly authenticated in the manner specified in
            subsection (7).

 (6) For the avoidance of doubt —

       (a) an electronic record of any document that was served
            through the electronic service; or

       (b) any copy or print-out of that electronic record,

shall not be inadmissible in evidence merely because the document
was served without the delivery of any equivalent document or
counterpart in paper form.

 (7) For the purposes of this section, a certificate —

       (a) giving the particulars of —

               (i) any person whose authentication code was used to
                   serve the document; and

              (ii) any person or device involved in the production or
                   transmission of the electronic record of the
                   document, or the copy or print-out thereof;

       (b) identifying the nature of the electronic record or copy or
            print‑out thereof; and

       (c) purporting to be signed by the Authority or by a person
            occupying a responsible position in relation to the
            operation of the electronic service at the relevant time,

shall be sufficient evidence that the electronic record, copy or
print‑out has been duly authenticated, unless the court, in its
discretion, calls for further evidence on this issue.

 (8) Where the electronic record of any document, or a copy or
print‑out of that electronic record, is admissible under subsection (5),
it shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the electronic

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              103

record, copy or print‑out accurately reproduces the contents of that
document.

 (9) The Authority may make regulations which are necessary or
expedient for carrying out the purposes of this section, including
regulations prescribing the procedure for the use of the electronic
service, including the procedure in circumstances where there is a
breakdown or interruption of the electronic service.

 (10) In this section —

      “account with the electronic service”, in relation to any person,
         means a computer account within the electronic service
         which is assigned by the Authority to that person for the
         storage and retrieval of electronic records relating to that
         person;

      “authentication code”, in relation to any person, means an
         identification or identifying code, a password or any other
         authentication method or procedure which is assigned to that
         person for the purposes of identifying and authenticating the
         access to and use of the electronic service by that person;

      “document” includes notice and order;

      “electronic record” has the same meaning as in section 2 of the
         Electronic Transactions Act (Cap. 88).

General powers of exemption

 74.—(1) The Authority may, by regulations, exempt any person or
class of persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act, other
than sections 13 and 14, subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed.

 (2) The Authority may, on the application of any person, by notice
in writing, exempt the person from all or any of the provisions of this
Act, other than sections 13 and 14, or any direction issued or
requirement imposed by the Authority under this Act if the Authority
considers it appropriate to do so in the circumstances of the case.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
104  NO. 13 OF 2013

 (3) An exemption under subsection (2) —
       (a) may be granted subject to such conditions as the Authority
            may specify by notice in writing; and
       (b) need not be published in the Gazette.

 (4) The Authority may at any time —
       (a) revoke any exemption granted; or
       (b) add to, vary or revoke any condition imposed,

under this section.

Opportunity to be heard
 75. Where this Act provides for a person to be given an opportunity

to be heard by the Authority, the Authority may prescribe the manner
in which the person shall be given the opportunity to be heard.

Amendment of Schedule
 76.—(1) The Minister may from time to time, by order published in

the Gazette, amend, add to or vary the Schedule.
 (2) The Minister may, in any order under subsection (1), make such

incidental, consequential or supplementary provisions as may be
necessary or expedient.

 (3) Any order made under subsection (1) shall be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Transitional provision
 77. For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of any

provision of this Act, the Minister may, by regulations, prescribe such
provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on the
enactment of that provision as he may consider necessary or
expedient.

Consequential amendments to Banking Act
 78. The Banking Act (Cap. 19) is amended —
       (a) by deleting the definition of “financial holding company”
            in section 2(1) and substituting the following definition:

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              105

                  “ “financial holding company” means a company
                        designated by the Authority under section 4 of
                        the Financial Holding Companies Act 2013;”;

       (b) by deleting the definition of “designated financial
            institution” in section 15(2);

       (c) by deleting the words “designated financial institution”
            wherever they appear in sections 15A, 15B, 15C, 15E, 16,
            17 and 18 and substituting in each case the words “bank
            incorporated in Singapore”; and

       (d) by deleting the words “designated financial institutions” in
            the section headings of sections 15A, 15B and 15E and
            substituting in each case the words “banks incorporated in
            Singapore”.

Consequential amendment to Monetary Authority of
Singapore Act

 79. The Schedule to the Monetary Authority of Singapore Act
(Cap. 186) is amended by inserting, immediately after item 12, the
following item:

      “12A. Financial Holding Companies Act 2013”.

                             THE SCHEDULE

                                                                      Sections 28(6), 29(8), 34(11) and 76(1)

                DEFINITIONS OF TERMS IN SECTIONS 28(6),
                                    29(8) AND 34(11)

1. For the purposes of sections 28(6), 29(8) and 34(11) and this Schedule —

    “affiliate” means —

               (a) in relation to a substantial shareholder of a designated financial
                    holding company, any corporation which is an associate of the
                    substantial shareholder, other than the designated financial
                    holding company and any company in which the designated
                    financial holding company acquires or holds, directly or
                    indirectly, a major stake; and

               (b) in relation to a substantial shareholder of a financial holding
                    company of which the designated financial holding company is
                    a subsidiary, any corporation which is an associate of the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
106  NO. 13 OF 2013

                            THE SCHEDULE — continued

                    substantial shareholder, other than the first‑mentioned financial
                    holding company and any company in which the first-
                    mentioned financial holding company acquires or holds,
                    directly or indirectly, a major stake;

     “associate”, in relation to a substantial shareholder, means —

               (a) any corporation in which the substantial shareholder controls
                    the composition of the board of directors;

               (b) any corporation in which the substantial shareholder controls
                    more than half of the voting power;

               (c) any corporation in which the substantial shareholder holds more
                    than half of the total number of issued shares;

               (d) any corporation which is a subsidiary of any other corporation
                    which is an associate by virtue of paragraph (a), (b) or (c);

               (e) any corporation in which the substantial shareholder or any
                    other corporation which is an associate by virtue of
                    paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d) has, or the substantial
                    shareholder and such other corporation together have, an
                    interest in shares entitling the beneficial owners thereof the
                    right to cast, whether by proxy or in person, not less than 20%
                    but not more than 50% of the total votes able to be cast at a
                    general meeting of the first-mentioned corporation; or

                (f) any corporation (not being a corporation which is an associate
                    by virtue of paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e)) the policies of
                    which the substantial shareholder or any other corporation
                    which is an associate by virtue of paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or
                    (e) is, or the substantial shareholder together with such other
                    corporation are, able to control or influence materially;

     “counterparty”, in relation to a designated financial holding company, means
        a person —

               (a) who has an obligation to the designated financial holding
                    company as a result of the designated financial holding
                    company’s contractual or other arrangements; or

               (b) in relation to whom the designated financial holding company is
                    at risk as a result of the designated financial holding company’s
                    contractual or other arrangements or investments;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              107

                       THE SCHEDULE — continued

“director”, in relation to a designated financial holding company, includes the
   spouse, parent and child of a director of the designated financial holding
   company;

“director group”, in relation to a designated financial holding company,
   means a group of persons comprising —

          (a) any director of the designated financial holding company;

          (b) every firm or limited liability partnership in which the director
               is a partner, a manager, an agent, a guarantor or a surety;

          (c) every individual of whom, and every company of which, the
               director is a guarantor or surety; and

          (d) every company in which the director —

                     (i) is an executive officer;

                     (ii) owns more than half of the total number of issued
                          shares, whether legally or beneficially;

                    (iii) controls more than half of the voting power; or

                    (iv) controls the composition of the board of directors;

“exposure” means the maximum loss that a designated financial holding
   company may incur as a result of the failure of a counterparty to meet any
   of its obligations;

“family member”, in relation to an individual, means the individual’s spouse,
   parent or child;

“financial group”, in relation to a designated financial holding company,
   means a group of companies comprising every company in which the
   designated financial holding company acquires or holds, directly or
   indirectly, a major stake;

“liquidity stress situation”, in relation to a designated financial holding
   company, means a situation where the designated financial holding
   company, having exhausted all reasonable sources or avenues for
   obtaining funds, is unable to meet its obligations, as and when they fall
   due, without incurring significant costs or losses;

“substantial shareholder group”, in relation to a designated financial holding
   company, means a group of persons comprising —

          (a) any substantial shareholder of the designated financial holding
               company;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
108  NO. 13 OF 2013

                             THE SCHEDULE — continued

                (b) every affiliate of the substantial shareholder of the designated
                     financial holding company; and

                (c) where the designated financial holding company is a subsidiary
                     of a financial holding company —

                            (i) any substantial shareholder of the second‑mentioned
                                financial holding company; and

                           (ii) every affiliate of the substantial shareholder referred to
                                in sub‑paragraph (i);

      “third party single counterparty group” means a group of persons —

                (a) who are financially dependent on one another; or

                (b) where one person controls every other person in that group,

         and where at least one of the persons is a counterparty to the designated
         financial holding company.

 2. For the purposes of the definitions of “associate” and “substantial shareholder
group”, a reference to a substantial shareholder shall, where the substantial
shareholder is an individual, include a reference to a family member of the
substantial shareholder.

 3. For the purposes of the definition of “associate”, a substantial shareholder is
deemed to control the composition of the board of directors of a corporation if he
has any power, exercisable by him without the consent or concurrence of any other
person, to appoint or remove all or a majority of the directors of the corporation.

 4. For the purposes of the definition of “director group”, a director of a
designated financial holding company is deemed to control the composition of the
board of directors of a company if he has any power, exercisable by him without
the consent or concurrence of any other person, to appoint or remove all or a
majority of the directors of the company.

 5. For the purposes of the definition of “exposure”, in determining the maximum
loss that a designated financial holding company may incur as a result of the
failure of a counterparty to meet any of its obligations —

        (a) any collateral available to the designated financial holding company;
             and

        (b) any likelihood of recovery from the counterparty in the event of the
             bankruptcy or winding up, or its equivalent, of the counterparty,

shall not be taken into account.

 6. For the purposes of the definition of “third party single counterparty
group” —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
FINANCIAL HOLDING COMPANIES                              109

                             THE SCHEDULE — continued

        (a) a person A is financially dependent on another person B if by virtue of a
             contractual or other relationship between them, A will or is likely to be
             unable to meet A’s financial obligations if B is unable to meet B’s
             financial obligations;

        (b) a person is controlled by the controlling person if the person is —

                  (i) a person in which the controlling person holds more than half
                      of the total number of issued shares, whether legally or
                      beneficially;

                 (ii) a person in which the controlling person controls more than
                      half of the voting power;

                (iii) a person in which the controlling person controls the
                      composition of the board of directors;

                (iv) a subsidiary of a person described in sub‑paragraph (i), (ii) or
                      (iii); or

                 (v) a person the policies of which the controlling person is in a
                      position to determine.

 7. For the purposes of paragraph 6, any reference to the controlling person shall,
if he is an individual, include a reference to his family members.

 8. In this Schedule, unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to a
company in which a financial holding company acquires or holds, directly or
indirectly, a major stake is a reference to a company in which the designated
financial holding company acquires or has a major stake as defined in
section 31(10).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
