  THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
       PRECIOUS STONES AND PRECIOUS METALS

(PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING, TERRORISM
 FINANCING AND PROLIFERATION FINANCING) ACT

                                     2019

                                                2020 REVISED EDITION

                     This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
          including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                                Prepared and Published by
                                         THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                             UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                               THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                                                                  2020 Ed.

Precious Stones and Precious Metals
 (Prevention of Money Laundering,

       Terrorism Financing and
 Proliferation Financing) Act 2019

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
     1.  Interpretation
     2.  Purpose of Act
     3.  Appointment of Registrar, Deputy Registrars, Assistant
     4.  Registrars and authorised officers
         Public servants
     5.

                                        PART 2

               REGISTRATION OF REGULATED DEALERS

                             Division 1 — Registration

 6. No regulated dealing without registration
 7. Registration and renewal
 8. Grounds for refusing to grant or renew registration
 9. Conditions of registration
 9A. Lapsing of registered dealer’s registration

                          Division 2 — Regulatory action

10. Regulatory action
11. Registrar to give opportunity to make representations
12. Recovery of financial penalties
13. Appeal to Minister

                                                  1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
         Precious Stones and Precious
         Metals (Prevention of Money

             Laundering, Terrorism

         PART 3

            PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING,
         TERRORISM FINANCING AND FINANCING OF

                 PROLIFERATION OF WEAPONS OF
                          MASS DESTRUCTION

Section  Application of this Part
   14.   Interpretation of this Part
   15.   Customer due diligence
   16.   Cash transaction reports
   17.   Keeping of records
   18.   Programmes and measures to prevent money laundering,
   19.   terrorism financing and financing of proliferation of weapons of
         mass destruction
   20.   Additional measures relating to targeted financial sanctions, etc.
   21.   Disclosure of suspicious transactions, etc.
   22.   Power to give directions

                                        PART 4

                    MONITORING AND ENFORCEMENT

23. Powers of monitoring and investigation
24. Further powers of investigation
25. Power to seize property, etc., in certain circumstances
26. Power of court over seized property, etc.

                                        PART 5
                              GENERAL OFFENCES

27. Providing false information to Registrar or authorised officer
28. Obstruction of investigation, etc.

                                        PART 6

                                      GENERAL

29. Disclosure of information to foreign authority
30. Protection from personal liability
31. Composition of offences
32. Offences by corporations
33. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
34. Jurisdiction of court

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
         Precious Stones and Precious
         Metals (Prevention of Money

             Laundering, Terrorism

Section  Codes of practice, guidelines and standards of performance
         Power to publish information
   35.   Service of documents
   36.   Electronic service
   36A.  Amendment of Schedule
   36B.  Exemption
   37.   Regulations
   38.   Saving and transitional provisions
   39.   The Schedule — Precious metals and precious stones
   40.

An Act to regulate persons who carry on a business of regulated
  dealing or as intermediaries for regulated dealing, so as to prevent
  money laundering, terrorism financing and the financing of
  proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

                                                               [10 April 2019]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Precious Stones and Precious Metals (Prevention
of Money Laundering, Terrorism Financing and Proliferation
Financing) Act 2019.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “asset-backed token” means a token, certificate or other
         instrument backed by one or more precious metals,
         precious stones or precious products that entitles the holder
         to the precious metal, precious stone or precious product, or
         part of it, but excludes —

              (a) securities or derivatives contracts within the
                   meanings of the Securities and Futures Act 2001;

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                    Precious Stones and Precious
                    Metals (Prevention of Money

                        Laundering, Terrorism

        (b) commodity contracts within the meaning of the
             Commodity Trading Act 1992;

        (c) digital payment tokens within the meaning of the
             Payment Services Act 2019; and

                                                                        [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

        (d) any token, certificate or other instrument that may be
             prescribed;

                                                                        [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

“Assistant Registrar” means an Assistant Registrar of Regulated
   Dealers appointed under section 4(1);

“authorised officer” means an authorised officer appointed
   under section 4(2);

“cash transaction report” means a cash transaction report under
   section 17;

“company” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“compliance officer” means an employee or officer in a
   management position of a regulated dealer who is
   responsible for ensuring that the regulated dealer complies
   with the measures under this Act for —

        (a) the prevention of money laundering;

        (b) the prevention of terrorism financing; and

        (c) the prevention of the financing of proliferation of
             weapons of mass destruction;

                                                                        [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

“customer” means a person with whom a regulated dealer enters
   into or intends to enter into a transaction;

“Deputy Registrar” means a Deputy Registrar of Regulated
   Dealers appointed under section 4(1);

“FATF” means the intergovernmental body known as the
   Financial Action Task Force;

“FATF Recommendations” means the recommendations issued
   by the FATF from time to time relating to —

       Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                    Precious Stones and Precious
                    Metals (Prevention of Money

                        Laundering, Terrorism

        (a) the prevention of money laundering;

                                                                        [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

        (b) the prevention of terrorism financing; and

                                                                        [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

        (c) the prevention of the financing of proliferation of
             weapons of mass destruction;

                                                                        [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

“financial institution” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
   Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

                                                                       [Act 18 of 2022 wef 28/04/2023]

“intermediary”, in relation to regulated dealing, means a broker,
   an auctioneer, an exchange or any provider of a trading or
   clearing facility, for regulated dealing, whether by electronic
   means or otherwise;

 [Deleted by Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

“pawnbroker” has the meaning given by section 3 of the
   Pawnbrokers Act 2015;

“precious metal” means any precious metal specified in Part 1 of
   the Schedule in a manufactured or unmanufactured state;

“precious product” means any jewellery, watch, apparel,
   accessory, ornament or other finished product —

        (a) made up of, containing or having attached to it, any
             precious stone or precious metal or both; and

        (b) that satisfies either of the following:

               (i) at least 50% of the value of the jewellery,
                    watch, apparel, accessory, ornament or other
                    finished product (or other percentage of value
                    prescribed in substitution) is attributable to the
                    precious stone or precious metal or both;

               (ii) the jewellery, watch, apparel, accessory,
                    ornament or other finished product is priced
                    above the prescribed value,

       Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                    Precious Stones and Precious
                    Metals (Prevention of Money

                        Laundering, Terrorism

   but excludes any product or class of products of a type
   prescribed;

                                                                        [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

“precious stone” means any precious stone specified in Part 2 of
   the Schedule;

“registered dealer” means a regulated dealer who is registered
   under section 7;

“Registrar” means the Registrar of Regulated Dealers appointed
   under section 4(1);

“registration” means registration under section 7;
“regulated dealer” means any person who carries on —

        (a) a business of regulated dealing; or
        (b) business as an intermediary for regulated dealing,
   but excludes a pawnbroker and any other person as may be
   prescribed;
“regulated dealing” means doing any of the following:
        (a) manufacturing any precious stone, precious metal or

             precious product;
        (b) importing or possessing for sale any precious stone,

             precious metal or precious product;
        (c) selling or offering for sale any precious stone,

             precious metal or precious product;
        (d) selling or redeeming asset‑backed tokens;
        (e) purchasing any precious stone, precious metal or

             precious product for the purposes of resale;
“relevant offence” means an offence under —

        (a) Part 2, 3 or 5;
        (b) sections 50 to 57 of the Corruption, Drug Trafficking

             and Other Serious Crimes (Confiscation of Benefits)
             Act 1992;
        (c) the Terrorism (Suppression of Financing) Act 2002;

       Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

              (d) any regulations made under the United Nations Act
                   2001;

              (e) any provision of any other written law relating to —
                     (i) the prevention of money laundering;
                     (ii) the prevention of terrorism financing; or

                    (iii) the prevention of the financing of proliferation
                          of weapons of mass destruction; or

              (f) the law of any foreign country or territory relating
                   to —
                     (i) the prevention of money laundering;
                     (ii) the prevention of terrorism financing; or
                    (iii) the prevention of the financing of proliferation
                          of weapons of mass destruction;

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

      “sale” includes a supply under a conditional sale agreement or
         hire‑purchase agreement within the meanings given by
         section 2(1) of the Hire‑Purchase Act 1969, and “selling”
         is construed accordingly;

      “secondhand goods dealer” means a secondhand goods dealer
         within the meaning given by the Secondhand Goods Dealers
         Act 2007;

      “substantial shareholder”, in relation to a company, has the
         meaning given by section 81 of the Companies Act 1967;

      “Suspicious Transaction Reporting Officer” has the meaning
         given by section 2(1) of the Corruption, Drug Trafficking and
         Other Serious Crimes (Confiscation of Benefits) Act 1992.

Purpose of Act
 3. The purpose of this Act is to combat money laundering, terrorism

financing and the financing of proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction in the precious stones industry and precious metals
industry by —

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

       (a) regulating the persons who carry on a business of regulated
            dealing or business as intermediaries for regulated dealing;
            and

       (b) prescribing measures to prevent regulated dealing from
            being used to facilitate money laundering, terrorism
            financing or the financing of proliferation of weapons of
            mass destruction.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

Appointment of Registrar, Deputy Registrars, Assistant
Registrars and authorised officers

 4.—(1) The Minister may appoint from among public officers —

       (a) a Registrar of Regulated Dealers; and

       (b) one or more Deputy Registrars of Regulated Dealers and
            Assistant Registrars of Regulated Dealers.

 (2) The Registrar may appoint any of the following persons to be an
authorised officer for the purposes of this Act:

       (a) a public officer;

       (b) an auxiliary police officer appointed under the Police
            Force Act 2004;

       (c) a public accountant registered or deemed to be registered
            under the Accountants Act 2004;

       (d) any individual suitably qualified and trained to be an
            authorised officer.

 (3) The Registrar is responsible for the administration of this Act,
and may exercise all the powers and perform all the duties and
functions of the Registrar under this Act, subject to any general or
special directions of the Minister.

 (4) A Deputy Registrar or an Assistant Registrar may exercise all
the powers and perform all the duties and functions of the Registrar
under any provision of this Act (except the power of appointment and
the power of delegation conferred by this section), subject to any
condition or limitation that the Registrar may specify; and any

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

reference in the provision of this Act to the Registrar includes a
reference to a Deputy Registrar or an Assistant Registrar.

 (5) The Registrar may delegate the exercise of any of the powers
conferred or duties imposed on the Registrar under any provision of
this Act (except the power of appointment and the power of
delegation conferred by this section) to an authorised officer,
subject to any condition or limitation that the Registrar may
specify; and any reference in the provision of this Act to the
Registrar includes a reference to the authorised officer.

Public servants
 5. Any authorised officer appointed under section 4(2) is taken to be

a public servant for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871 when
exercising any power conferred or performing any duty imposed on
the authorised officer by the Registrar.

                                    PART 2
           REGISTRATION OF REGULATED DEALERS

                         Division 1 — Registration
No regulated dealing without registration

 6.—(1) A person must not act as or hold out to be a regulated dealer
unless the person is a registered dealer.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$75,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $7,500 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Registration and renewal
 7.—(1) An application for registration as a registered dealer, or

renewal of registration, must be —
       (a) made to the Registrar in the form and manner specified by
            the Registrar;

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

       (b) accompanied by the documents and information required
            by the Registrar; and

       (c) accompanied by the application fee prescribed, if any.

 (2) The Registrar may —

       (a) grant the registration or renewal, with such conditions and
            for such period as may be prescribed; or

       (b) refuse the registration or renewal.

Grounds for refusing to grant or renew registration

 8.—(1) The Registrar may refuse to grant or renew registration on
any of the following grounds:

       (a) the prescribed fee for the registration or renewal is not
            paid;

       (b) the application for the registration or renewal —

               (i) contains materially false or misleading information;
                   or

              (ii) is materially incomplete;

       (c) the applicant for the registration or renewal is, in the
            Registrar’s opinion, not a fit and proper person;

       (d) the applicant has an individual in any of the following
            positions of the applicant who, in the Registrar’s opinion,
            is not a fit and proper person:

               (i) where the applicant is a company, a substantial
                   shareholder;

              (ii) a director, manager, partner, secretary, compliance
                   officer or other person holding an analogous position
                   involved in the management of the applicant;

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

             (iii) an employee managing the applicant’s business of
                   regulated dealing or the applicant’s business as an
                   intermediary, as the case may be;

       (e) it is not in the public interest to grant or renew the
            registration.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
Precious Stones and Precious
Metals (Prevention of Money

    Laundering, Terrorism

 (2) For the purpose of determining whether or not any person is a fit
and proper person under this Part, the Registrar must have regard to,
and give the weight he or she considers appropriate to, all of the
following matters:

(a) whether the person has been convicted, whether before, on
     or after the commencement date —

(i) of an offence involving fraud or dishonesty
    punishable with imprisonment for a term of
    3 months or more, whether in Singapore or
    elsewhere; or

(ii) of a relevant offence;

                             [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

(b) whether the person is an undischarged bankrupt;

(c) the person’s record of compliance with requirements for
    the following to which the person is subject under this Act
    or any other written law or the law of any foreign country
    or territory:

(i) the prevention of money laundering;

(ii) the prevention of terrorism financing;

             (iii) the prevention of the financing of proliferation of
                   weapons of mass destruction.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

 (3) To avoid doubt, the Registrar is not confined to considering the
matters in subsection (2) and may take into account any other matters
and evidence as may be relevant.

 (4) In subsection (2)(a), “commencement date” means the date of
commencement of section 6 of the Prevention of Proliferation
Financing and Other Matters Act 2024.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

Conditions of registration

 9.—(1) The Registrar may impose any conditions of registration on
a registered dealer that the Registrar considers necessary or expedient
for the purposes of this Act.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

 (2) The Registrar may, by written notice to a registered dealer and
after giving the registered dealer an opportunity to be heard, add to,
vary or cancel any condition of registration.

Lapsing of registered dealer’s registration

 9A. The registration of a registered dealer lapses —

       (a) when the registered dealer (being an entity) is wound up or
            otherwise dissolved, whether in Singapore or elsewhere; or

       (b) when the registered dealer (being an individual who is a
            sole proprietor) dies.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

                      Division 2 — Regulatory action

Regulatory action

 10.—(1) The Registrar may cancel the registration of a registered
dealer, or suspend the registration for a period not exceeding
6 months, if the Registrar is satisfied of any of the following matters:

       (a) the registered dealer has failed to comply with any
            condition of registration to which the registered dealer is
            subject;

       (b) the registration was obtained by fraud or
            misrepresentation;

       (c) there existed at the time the registration was granted or
            renewed a circumstance that, if known to the Registrar at
            the time, would have required or permitted the Registrar to
            refuse to grant or renew the registration;

       (d) the registered dealer is neither carrying on the business of
            regulated dealing nor business as an intermediary in
            Singapore;

       (e) the registered dealer or any of the persons mentioned in
            section 8(1)(d) is no longer a fit and proper person within
            the meaning of this Part;

      (ea) the registered dealer has displayed, advertised, stated or
            otherwise used its registration in a manner which the

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

            registered dealer knows, or has reason to believe, is likely
            to create an erroneous impression that the Registrar
            regulates the registered dealer for any purpose other
            than —

               (i) the prevention of money laundering;

              (ii) the prevention of terrorism financing; and

             (iii) the prevention of the financing of proliferation of
                   weapons of mass destruction;

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

        (f) it is not in the public interest for the registered dealer to
            continue to carry on the business of regulated dealing or
            business as an intermediary in Singapore.

 (1A) For the purposes of subsection (1)(d), the Registrar may have
regard to anything that the Registrar thinks relevant in determining
whether a registered dealer is carrying on the business of regulated
dealing or business as an intermediary in Singapore, including the
occurrence of any event, or whether there exists any circumstances,
that may be prescribed.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

 (2) The Registrar may, in addition to or instead of taking any action
under subsection (1), order a registered dealer to pay a financial
penalty of an amount not exceeding $100,000, where the registered
dealer —

       (a) contravenes a provision of this Act, which contravention is
            not an offence; or

       (b) fails to comply with a condition of registration to which the
            registered dealer is subject.

 (3) In any proceedings under this section, or any appeal to the
Minister under section 13 against the Registrar’s decision,
consequent on the conviction of a registered dealer for an offence,
the Registrar or the Minister (as the case may be) must accept the
conviction as final and conclusive.

 (4) Any proceedings started under this section against a registered
dealer may continue, and the Registrar may exercise the power under

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

subsection (2) against a former registered dealer, despite the expiry of
the registered dealer’s registration.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

Registrar to give opportunity to make representations

 11.—(1) Before exercising any power under section 10, the
Registrar must, unless it is not practicable or desirable to do so in
the circumstances of the case, give written notice to the registered
dealer or former registered dealer concerned —

       (a) stating that the Registrar intends to take regulatory action
            under section 10 against the registered dealer or former
            registered dealer;

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

       (b) specifying the type of regulatory action the Registrar
            proposes to take and the ground or grounds for the
            regulatory action; and

       (c) specifying the time (being at least 14 days after the date the
            written notice is served on the registered dealer or former
            registered dealer) within which representations may be
            made to the Registrar with respect to the proposed
            regulatory action.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

 (2) The Registrar may decide to take the appropriate regulatory
action —

       (a) after considering any written representation made to the
            Registrar pursuant to the written notice mentioned in
            subsection (1); or

       (b) after the time delimited in the written notice in
            subsection (1)(c) lapses, if no representation is made.

 (3) The Registrar must serve on the registered dealer or former
registered dealer a written notice of the Registrar’s decision and the
date the decision takes effect.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

 (4) The Registrar’s decision takes effect on the date stated in the
written notice under subsection (3) despite any appeal to the Minister
under section 13 against the Registrar’s decision.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

 (5) Any cancellation or suspension of registration under
section 10(1) does not affect —

       (a) the enforcement by any person of any right or claim against
            the registered dealer or former registered dealer; or

       (b) the enforcement by the registered dealer or former
            registered dealer of any right or claim against any person.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

Recovery of financial penalties
 12.—(1) Any registered dealer or former registered dealer who fails

to pay any financial penalty imposed on the person by the date
specified in the written notice under section 11(3) is liable to pay to
the Registrar interest on the amount unpaid at the same rate as for a
judgment debt.

 (2) Any financial penalty payable pursuant to an order under
section 10, and any interest under subsection (1), is recoverable as a
debt due to the Government.

 (3) The Registrar must, if directed to do so by the Minister on an
appeal, and may in any other case the Registrar thinks fit, waive,
remit or refund in whole or in part any financial penalty imposed or
any interest due on any financial penalty.

Appeal to Minister
 13.—(1) A person aggrieved by any of the following decisions may

appeal to the Minister within the period and in the manner prescribed:
       (a) the Registrar’s refusal to grant or renew registration;
       (b) the imposition or addition, variation or cancellation of any
            condition of registration;
       (c) any regulatory action under section 10.

 (2) An appeal under this section does not affect the validity of the
decision appealed against or prevent the taking of action to
implement the decision, and the decision appealed against must be
complied with until the determination of the appeal.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

 (3) The Minister may designate any of the following persons to hear
and determine, in the Minister’s place, any appeal under
subsection (1):

       (a) the Second Minister (if any) for his or her Ministry;
       (b) any Minister of State, including a Senior Minister of State,

            for his or her Ministry;
       (c) any Parliamentary Secretary, including a Senior

            Parliamentary Secretary, to his or her Ministry.
 (4) The decision of the Minister, or other person designated by the
Minister under subsection (3), on the appeal is final.

                                    PART 3
            PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING,
         TERRORISM FINANCING AND FINANCING OF

                 PROLIFERATION OF WEAPONS OF
                          MASS DESTRUCTION

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

Application of this Part
 14. This Part applies to all regulated dealers who carry on in

Singapore any part of their business of regulated dealing, or business
as an intermediary for regulated dealing.

Interpretation of this Part
 15. In this Part —
      “cash” means currency notes and coins (whether of Singapore or
         of a foreign country or territory) which are legal tender and
         circulate as money in the country or territory of issue;
      “cash equivalent” means anything used as currency that is
         prescribed for the purposes of this Part;
      “designated transaction” means any of the following
         transactions conducted wholly or partly in Singapore:

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

              (a) a sale of any precious stone, precious metal, precious
                   product or asset‑backed token by a regulated dealer to
                   a customer, for which cash or a cash equivalent
                   exceeding the threshold amount is received as
                   payment;

              (b) 2 or more sales of any precious stone, precious metal,
                   precious product or asset‑backed token in a single
                   day by a regulated dealer to the same customer, or to
                   customers whom the regulated dealer knows act on
                   behalf of the same person, for which cash or a cash
                   equivalent in total exceeding the threshold amount is
                   received as payment;

              (c) a purchase of any precious stone, precious metal or
                   precious product from a customer (who is not a
                   regulated dealer) by a regulated dealer (who is a
                   secondhand goods dealer), for which cash or a cash
                   equivalent exceeding the threshold amount is
                   received as payment;

              (d) a transaction prescribed as a designated transaction;

      “threshold amount” means $20,000 or its equivalent in value, or
         an amount prescribed in substitution.

Customer due diligence

 16.—(1) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), a regulated dealer must
perform the prescribed customer due diligence measures in any of the
following circumstances:

       (a) before entering into a designated transaction;

       (b) where the regulated dealer has reason to suspect money
            laundering, terrorism financing or the financing of
            proliferation of weapons of mass destruction;

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

       (c) where the regulated dealer has reason to doubt the veracity
            or adequacy of information obtained from earlier customer
            due diligence measures;

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

       (d) under circumstances prescribed for the purposes of this
            section.

 (2) Different customer due diligence measures may be prescribed in
relation to different regulated dealers or classes of regulated dealers,
different types of designated transactions or different customers or
classes of customers.

 (3) A regulated dealer must not proceed with any designated
transaction if there exists any circumstances that are prescribed.

 (4) Unless subsection (3) applies, a regulated dealer may choose not
to perform or to complete any measure that the regulated dealer is
required by this section to perform if —

       (a) the regulated dealer has reason to suspect that the
            designated transaction relates to money laundering,
            terrorism financing or the financing of proliferation of
            weapons of mass destruction; and

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

       (b) the regulated dealer has reason to believe that performing
            the measure will tip off the customer or any other person.

 (5) Where, in relation to any customer, a regulated dealer is for any
reason unable or chooses not to complete performing any measure
required to be performed under this section, the regulated dealer
must —

       (a) decline to enter into any transaction with the customer;

       (b) terminate any transaction entered into with the customer;

       (c) determine whether to make a disclosure under section 45 of
            the Corruption, Drug Trafficking and Other Serious
            Crimes (Confiscation of Benefits) Act 1992 or section 8
            or 10 of the Terrorism (Suppression of Financing)
            Act 2002;

       (d) record the basis of the regulated dealer’s determination
            under paragraph (c); and

       (e) carry out any other measures that may be prescribed.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

 (6) A regulated dealer who fails to comply with subsection (1), (3)
or (5) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
a fine not exceeding $100,000.

Cash transaction reports

 17.—(1) A regulated dealer who enters into any designated
transaction must submit to a Suspicious Transaction Reporting
Officer, within the prescribed time, a cash transaction report relating
to that transaction in the prescribed form and manner.

 (1A) A regulated dealer must not, without reasonable excuse,
submit a cash transaction report under subsection (1) that is
incomplete or inaccurate.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

 (2) A regulated dealer must keep a copy of each cash transaction
report submitted under subsection (1) for the prescribed period.

 (3) A regulated dealer must, at the time of submitting a cash
transaction report under subsection (1) or immediately thereafter,
submit a copy of the cash transaction report to the Registrar.

 (4) A regulated dealer who fails to comply with subsection (1),
(1A), (2) or (3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

Keeping of records

 18.—(1) A regulated dealer must keep the following documents
and information for the prescribed period:

       (a) a record of every designated transaction (whether or not
            completed) and every other transaction for which the
            customer due diligence measures mentioned in section 16
            must be performed, containing the prescribed information
            on that transaction;

       (b) a record of all information relating to a customer which is
            obtained through the customer due diligence measures
            performed under section 16;

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

       (c) a copy of each supporting document relied on in support of
            any information referred to in paragraph (b);

       (d) any other document and information that may be
            prescribed.

 (1A) A regulated dealer who becomes a former regulated dealer on
or after the commencement date must continue to keep each of the
documents and information mentioned in subsection (1), that were
required to be kept by the regulated dealer, until the end of the
prescribed period applicable to each of those documents and
information.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), different periods may be
prescribed for different regulated dealers or classes of regulated
dealers, different types of designated transactions or different
documents and information.

 (3) A regulated dealer or former regulated dealer must keep the
documents and information mentioned in subsection (1) in the form
prescribed.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

 (4) A regulated dealer or former regulated dealer must make the
documents and information mentioned in subsection (1) available
upon request to the Registrar in the manner prescribed.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

 (5) A regulated dealer or former regulated dealer who contravenes
subsection (1), (3) or (4) (read with subsection (1A) where
applicable) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

 (6) In this section —

      “commencement date” means the date of commencement of
         section 13 of the Prevention of Proliferation Financing and
         Other Matters Act 2024;

      “former regulated dealer” means a regulated dealer who has
         ceased to carry on any business of regulated dealing or
         business as an intermediary in Singapore.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

Programmes and measures to prevent money laundering,
terrorism financing and financing of proliferation of weapons
of mass destruction

 19.—(1) A regulated dealer must, in relation to the regulated
dealer’s business of regulated dealing or business as an intermediary
for regulated dealing, implement adequate programmes and measures
to prevent money laundering, terrorism financing and the financing of
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

 (2) The type and extent of the measures to be taken under
subsection (1) must —

       (a) comply with any requirements that may be prescribed; and

       (b) be appropriate, having regard to —

               (i) the risks of money laundering, terrorism financing
                   and financing the proliferation of weapons of mass
                   destruction; and

              (ii) the size of the regulated dealer’s business.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

 (3) A regulated dealer who contravenes subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $100,000.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

Additional measures relating to targeted financial sanctions,
etc.

 20.—(1) A regulated dealer must perform —

       (a) any prescribed measures relating to targeted financial
            sanctions against terrorism; and

       (b) any additional prescribed measures which are necessary or
            expedient to give effect to any relevant FATF
            Recommendation.

 (2) A regulated dealer who contravenes subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $100,000.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

Disclosure of suspicious transactions, etc.
 21.—(1) A regulated dealer must, if circumstances exist that

require the regulated dealer to do so, make a disclosure under
whichever of the following is applicable:

       (a) section 45(1) of the Corruption, Drug Trafficking and
            Other Serious Crimes (Confiscation of Benefits) Act 1992;

       (b) section 8 or 10 of the Terrorism (Suppression of Financing)
            Act 2002.

 (2) A regulated dealer must, at the time of disclosing a matter under
subsection (1) or immediately thereafter, submit a copy of the
information so disclosed to the Registrar.

 (3) A regulated dealer who fails to comply with subsection (2) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $20,000.

Power to give directions
 22.—(1) The Registrar may give a written direction mentioned in

subsection (2) to a regulated dealer in respect of that part of the
regulated dealer’s business of regulated dealing or business as an
intermediary for regulated dealing conducted in Singapore, where the
Registrar considers that —

       (a) the regulated dealer has carried on or is carrying on
            business in a manner that carries a risk of money
            laundering, terrorism financing or financing the
            proliferation of weapons of mass destruction;

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

       (b) a relevant offence is being committed; or

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

       (c) it is necessary or expedient for the written direction to be
            given for —
               (i) the prevention of money laundering;
              (ii) the prevention of terrorism financing; or

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

             (iii) the prevention of the financing of proliferation of
                   weapons of mass destruction.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

 (2) The Registrar may give a written direction to require the
regulated dealer to do one or more of the following:

       (a) to stop or terminate its regulated dealing, or a particular
            transaction, with a particular customer;

       (b) to stop a particular employee or individual from
            conducting any part of the regulated dealer’s business as
            a regulated dealer;

       (c) to do or refrain from doing anything specified in the
            written direction to mitigate the risk mentioned in
            subsection (1)(a) or to stop the commission of the
            offence mentioned in subsection (1)(b);

       (d) at the regulated dealer’s own cost, to appoint an auditor to
            carry out an audit of the regulated dealer’s compliance with
            the measures under this Act for —

               (i) the prevention of money laundering;

              (ii) the prevention of terrorism financing; and

             (iii) the prevention of the financing of proliferation of
                   weapons of mass destruction,

       (d) including an audit of any matters that the Registrar may
            specifically require for that purpose;

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

       (e) to take specified measures to comply with this Act or to
            remedy any contravention of or non‑compliance with this
            Act to which the direction relates.

 (3) Before giving a written direction under subsection (1), the
Registrar must, unless it is not practicable or desirable to do so in the
circumstances of the case, give the regulated dealer concerned an
opportunity to be heard.

 (4) To avoid doubt, a written direction under subsection (1) need
not be published in the Gazette.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

 (5) A regulated dealer who fails to comply with a written direction
given to the regulated dealer under this section shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$20,000.

                                    PART 4
                MONITORING AND ENFORCEMENT
Powers of monitoring and investigation
 23.—(1) The Registrar may exercise all or any powers in this
section for any of the following purposes:
       (a) ascertaining whether the provisions of Part 3 are being
            complied with;
       (b) ascertaining whether any condition of registration or a
            written direction under section 22 is being complied with;
       (c) investigating any offence under this Act.
 (2) The Registrar may —
       (a) enter and inspect any place that the Registrar believes on
            reasonable grounds is used for the business of regulated
            dealing or business as an intermediary for regulated
            dealing, even if also used as a residence;
       (b) photograph or film, or make any record or sketch of, any
            part of the premises, or any thing at the place;
       (c) require any person at that place to produce or grant access
            to, without charge, any document or material reasonably
            required for any purpose in subsection (1), which is in the
            possession or under the control of that person;
       (d) require any person, whom the Registrar reasonably
            believes has any information or any document or
            material in the person’s possession, custody or control
            that is relevant for any of the purposes in subsection (1), to
            provide that information, or produce or grant access to that
            document or material;

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

       (e) inspect and make copies of or take extracts from any
            document or material provided under paragraph (c) or (d);
            and

        (f) take possession of the document or material if, in the
            Registrar’s opinion —

               (i) the inspection or copying of or extraction from the
                   document or material cannot reasonably be
                   performed without taking possession;

              (ii) the document or material may be interfered with or
                   destroyed unless possession is taken; or

             (iii) the document or material may be required as
                   evidence for any regulatory action, or in any
                   proceedings under this Act.

 (3) Any power under this section to require a person to produce any
document or to provide information includes the power —

       (a) to take reasonable steps to require the person to produce
            the document or provide the information immediately or at
            a place and time specified in writing;

       (b) to require the person to provide an explanation of the
            document or information;

       (c) if the document or information is not produced or
            provided, to require the person to state, to the best of the
            person’s knowledge and belief, where the document or
            information is;

       (d) if the document or information is recorded otherwise than
            in legible form, to require the document or information to
            be made available in legible form; and

       (e) if the document or information is recorded in electronic
            form, to require the person to —

               (i) provide assistance in gaining access to any computer
                   or other equipment in which the document or
                   information is stored; and

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

              (ii) provide the document or information, or a copy of
                   the document or information, in a form or format
                   specified by the Registrar.

 (4) Any thing taken possession of by the Registrar under
subsection (2) —

       (a) must be placed in safe custody by the Registrar; and

       (b) unless ordered otherwise by the court, may be retained
            until the completion of the investigation or any
            proceedings (including proceedings on appeal) in which
            it may be in evidence.

Further powers of investigation

 24.—(1) The Registrar may, for the purposes of investigating an
offence under this Act, in addition to exercising the powers in
section 23, do all or any of the following:

       (a) issue a written notice requiring any person within the limits
            of Singapore, who appears to be acquainted with the facts
            or circumstances of the matter, to attend before the
            Registrar;

       (b) examine orally any person who appears to be acquainted
            with the facts or circumstances of the matter —

               (i) whether before or after that person or anyone else is
                   charged with an offence in connection with the
                   matter; and

              (ii) whether or not that person is to be called as a witness
                   in any inquiry, trial or other proceeding in connection
                   with the matter;

       (c) without a warrant enter and search any place or premises in
            which the Registrar reasonably suspects that an offence
            under this Act has been or is being committed;

       (d) if free entry or access to the place or premises cannot be
            obtained under paragraph (c), the Registrar may, with any
            assistance that the Registrar considers necessary, break
            open any door, window, lock or fastener, or use any other

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

            reasonable means in order to gain entry or access into the
            place or premises.
 (2) Any person examined under this section is bound to state truly
what the person knows of the facts and circumstances of the matter,
except that the person need not say anything that might expose the
person to a criminal charge, penalty or forfeiture.
 (3) A statement made by any person examined under this section
must —
       (a) be reduced to writing;
       (b) be read over to the person;
       (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted in
            a language that the person understands; and
       (d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by the person.
 (4) If any person fails to comply with a written notice issued to the
person under subsection (1)(a), the Registrar may report the failure to
a Magistrate who may then issue a warrant ordering that person to
comply with the written notice.

Power to seize property, etc., in certain circumstances
 25.—(1) The Registrar may seize any property —
       (a) in respect of which a contravention of this Act is suspected
            to have been committed;
       (b) that is suspected to have been used or intended to be used
            in a contravention of this Act; or
       (c) that is suspected to constitute evidence of a contravention
            of this Act.
 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to property held or suspected to be

held in an account or a safe deposit box in a financial institution.
 (3) The occupier or person in charge of a place from which property

is to be seized under subsection (1), or a representative of the occupier
or person in charge, may attend during the seizure.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

 (4) The Registrar must prepare and sign a list of any property seized
under subsection (1), recording the location from which each item of
property is seized.

 (5) A signed copy of the list must be given to the occupier or person
in charge of the place from which property was seized, or a
representative of the occupier or person in charge.

 (6) Instead of seizing any property under subsection (1), the
Registrar may, by written order —

       (a) prohibit any person from dealing with the property; and
       (b) require any person to affix the order or a copy of the order

            on or near the property.

Power of court over seized property, etc.
 26. Sections 370, 371 and 372 of the Criminal Procedure

Code 2010 are to apply, with the necessary modifications, when
the Registrar seizes property or prohibits any dealing in property
under section 25.

                                    PART 5
                          GENERAL OFFENCES
Providing false information to Registrar or authorised officer
 27. A person who, in any application for registration (or renewal of
registration) or in compliance or purported compliance with any
requirement under Part 3 or 4 —
       (a) provides to the Registrar or an authorised officer any
            information or document that the person knows or has
            reason to believe is materially false or misleading;
       (b) omits to provide any information to the Registrar or
            authorised officer for the purposes of this Act, knowing or
            having reason to believe that the omission will create a
            materially false or misleading impression;

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism
       (c) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any document

            or information which the person has been required to
            produce or provide; or
       (d) in producing any document or providing any information
            so required, makes any statement which the person knows
            or ought reasonably to know is, or is reckless as to whether
            it is, false or misleading in a material particular,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

Obstruction of investigation, etc.
 28. A person who, without reasonable excuse —
       (a) refuses or fails to provide any information, or produce any
            document or material, required of the person by the
            Registrar under section 23;
       (b) fails to comply with any written notice issued to the person
            under section 24;
       (c) knowingly obstructs or prevents, or attempts to obstruct or
            prevent —
               (i) a person from complying with anything required of
                   the person by the Registrar under section 23 or 24; or
              (ii) the Registrar from exercising any of the Registrar’s
                   powers under section 23 or 24; or
       (d) disposes of or deals in any property contrary to the
            Registrar’s order under section 25(6),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

                                    PART 6

                                  GENERAL

Disclosure of information to foreign authority

 29.—(1) The Registrar may disclose any information or document
obtained in the exercise of his or her functions under this Act to a
corresponding authority of a foreign country or territory only if the
Registrar is satisfied that —

       (a) the information or document is relevant to enable the
            corresponding authority to carry out any supervision,
            investigation or enforcement under any law in that country
            or territory relating to —

               (i) the prevention of money laundering;

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

              (ii) the prevention of terrorism financing; or

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

             (iii) the prevention of the financing of proliferation of
                   weapons of mass destruction;

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

       (b) there exists an arrangement under which the corresponding
            authority has agreed, or has given an undertaking, to
            communicate to Singapore, upon Singapore’s request,
            information received by the corresponding authority that
            corresponds to any thing required to be disclosed or
            reported to the Registrar under this Act;

       (c) the corresponding authority has given appropriate
            undertakings —

               (i) for protecting the confidentiality of any thing
                   communicated to it; and

              (ii) for controlling the use that will be made of any
                   information or document disclosed to it (including an
                   undertaking to obtain the prior consent of the
                   Registrar before using or disclosing the
                   information or document for a purpose other than
                   the purpose for which the information or document
                   was requested); and

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

       (d) any other prescribed conditions are fulfilled.
 (2) In this section, “corresponding authority”, in relation to a
foreign country or territory, means the authority of that foreign
country or territory exercising any function that corresponds to the
functions of the Registrar under this Act.

Protection from personal liability
 30. No liability shall lie personally against the Registrar, a Deputy

Registrar, an Assistant Registrar or an authorised officer who, acting
in good faith and with reasonable care, does or omits to do anything in
the execution or purported execution of this Act.

Composition of offences
 31.—(1) The Registrar may compound any offence under this Act

that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting, from a
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence, a sum
not exceeding half of the amount of the maximum fine for the
offence.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further criminal
proceedings are to be taken against that person in respect of the
offence.

Offences by corporations
 32.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is

necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,
is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

       (a) who is —
               (i) an officer of the corporation; or
              (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
                   of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                   the offence; and

       (b) who —
               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;
              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the corporation; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                   type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                   take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                   commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —
       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or
       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

 (6) In this section —
      “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
         meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
         Act 2005;
      “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
         partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the corporation, and includes —
              (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and
              (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
                   members, any of those members as if the member
                   were a director of the corporation;
      “state of mind” of a person includes —
              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and
              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
 33.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is

necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, partner, employee or agent of the
            unincorporated association or partnership engaged in that
            conduct within the scope of his or her actual or apparent
            authority; and

       (b) the officer, partner, employee or agent had that state of
            mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                   position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership in
                   relation to the commission of the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the unincorporated
                   association or partnership; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the unincorporated association or
                   partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                   be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                   reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                   that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership, and shall be liable on conviction to be
punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
         a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
         member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
         and includes —

              (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
                   president, secretary or member of a committee of the
                   unincorporated association; and

              (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

      “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

Jurisdiction of court

 34. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full punishment in respect of the
offence.

Codes of practice, guidelines and standards of performance

 35.—(1) The Registrar may issue, approve, amend or revoke one or
more codes of practice, guidelines or standards of performance for all
or any of the following purposes:

       (a) to provide guidance to regulated dealers in relation to the
            operation or administration of any provision of this Act;

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

       (b) to set out best practices —

               (i) for regulated dealers with respect to measures for —

                    (A) the prevention of money laundering;

                     (B) the prevention of terrorism financing; and

                     (C) the prevention of the financing of proliferation
                          of weapons of mass destruction; and

              (ii) for giving effect to the relevant FATF
                   Recommendations.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

 (2) If any provision in any code of practice, guideline or standard of
performance is inconsistent with this Act, that provision, to the extent
of the inconsistency, does not have effect.

 (3) Where a code of practice, guideline or standard of performance
is issued, approved, amended or revoked by the Registrar under
subsection (1), the Registrar must —

       (a) publish a notice of the issue, approval, amendment or
            revocation (as the case may be) in a manner that will secure
            adequate publicity for the issue, approval, amendment or
            revocation;

       (b) specify in the notice the date of the issue, approval,
            amendment or revocation, as the case may be; and

       (c) ensure that, so long as the code of practice, guideline or
            standard of performance remains in force, copies of that
            code, guideline or standard, and of all amendments to it,
            are available free of charge to any regulated dealer to
            whom that code, guideline or standard applies.

 (4) No code of practice, guideline or standard of performance, or
amendment or revocation, has any effect until the notice relating to it
is published in accordance with subsection (3).

 (5) Any code of practice, guideline or standard of performance has
no legislative effect.

 (6) Any failure by a regulated dealer to comply with any code of
practice, guideline or standard of performance applicable to the

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

regulated dealer does not of itself render the regulated dealer liable to
criminal proceedings, but the failure may, in any proceedings
(criminal or otherwise), be relied on by any party to those
proceedings as tending to establish or negate any liability which is
in question in those proceedings.

Power to publish information

 36. Where the Registrar considers it necessary or expedient in the
interest of the public, the Registrar may publish —

       (a) any information relating to any regulated dealer,
            including —

               (i) the composition of any offence by a regulated dealer
                   under this Act;

              (ii) any regulatory action taken against, or condition of
                   registration imposed on, a registered dealer under
                   this Act;

             (iii) any written direction under section 22 given to a
                   regulated dealer;

             (iv) any criminal proceedings against a regulated dealer
                   for a relevant offence; and

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

              (v) any regulatory action or civil or criminal proceedings
                   against a regulated dealer under the law of a foreign
                   country or territory for a contravention of any law
                   relating to —

                    (A) the prevention of money laundering;

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

                     (B) the prevention of terrorism financing; or

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

                     (C) the prevention of the financing of proliferation
                          of weapons of mass destruction; or

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

       (b) any information which the Registrar has acquired in the
            performance of his or her duties or in the exercise of his or
            her powers under this Act.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

Service of documents

 36A.—(1) Any document required or authorised by this Act to be
served on any person may be served on the person —

       (a) in the case of an individual —

               (i) by delivering it to the individual personally;

              (ii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently resident
                   at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post to, the
                   usual or last known address of the individual’s place
                   of residence;

             (iii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently
                   employed at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
                   post to, the usual or last known address of the
                   individual’s place of business;

             (iv) by affixing a copy of the notice in a conspicuous
                   place at the usual or last known address of residence
                   or business of the individual;

              (v) by sending it by fax to the fax number operated at the
                   usual or last known address of the individual’s place
                   of residence or business, or the last fax number given
                   to the Registrar by the individual as the fax number
                   for the service of documents on the individual; or

             (vi) subject to subsection (5) —

                    (A) by sending it by email to the individual’s last
                          email address; or

                     (B) by sending it by an internet-based messaging
                          service to the individual’s last contact address;

       (b) in the case of a partnership other than a limited liability
            partnership —

               (i) by delivering it to any one of the partners or the
                   secretary or other similar officer of the partnership;

              (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
                   post to, the partnership’s principal or last known
                   place of business in Singapore;

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

             (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number operated at the
                   partnership’s principal or last known place of
                   business in Singapore; or

             (iv) subject to subsection (5) —

                    (A) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last
                          email address; or

                     (B) by sending it by an internet-based messaging
                          service to the partnership’s last contact
                          address; and

       (c) in the case of any limited liability partnership or any other
            body corporate —

               (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other similar
                   officer of the body corporate or, in the case of a
                   limited liability partnership, its manager;

              (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
                   post to, the registered office or principal office of the
                   limited liability partnership or body corporate in
                   Singapore;

             (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number operated at the
                   registered office or principal office of the limited
                   liability partnership or body corporate in Singapore;
                   or

             (iv) subject to subsection (5) —

                    (A) by sending it by email to the limited liability
                          partnership’s or body corporate’s last email
                          address; or

                     (B) by sending it by an internet-based messaging
                          service to the limited liability partnership’s or
                          body corporate’s last contact address.

 (2) Unless the contrary is proved, where any document required or
authorised by this Act to be served is sent by a fax to the fax number
operated at the last known place of residence or business or registered
office or principal office in accordance with subsection (1), it is
deemed to have been duly served on the person to whom it is

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

addressed on the day of transmission, subject to receipt on the
sending fax machine of a notification (by electronic or other means)
of a successful transmission to the place of residence or business or
registered office or principal office, as the case may be.

 (3) Unless the contrary is proved, where any document required or
authorised by this Act to be served is sent by prepaid registered post,
it is deemed to have been duly served on the person to whom it is
addressed 2 days after the day the document was posted.

 (4) Unless the contrary is proved, where any document is sent by
email or by an internet-based messaging service under subsection (1),
service of the document takes effect at the time that the email or
message becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom it
is sent.

 (5) Service of any document under this Act on a person by email or
by an internet-based messaging service may be effected only —

       (a) with the person’s prior written consent to service in that
            way; and

       (b) in a file format that the person has agreed to.

 (6) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

 (7) In this section —

      “document” includes a notice, an order and a direction;

      “last contact address”, in relation to an internet-based messaging
         service, means —

              (a) the last contact address, for receipt of messages
                   through the internet-based messaging service, given
                   by the addressee concerned to the person serving the
                   document as the contact address for the service of the
                   document; or

              (b) the last contact address for receipt of messages
                   through the internet-based messaging service, of the
                   addressee concerned, known to the person serving
                   the document;

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

      “last email address” means —
              (a) the last email address given by the addressee
                   concerned to the person serving the document as
                   the email address for the service of the document; or
              (b) the last email address of the addressee concerned
                   known to the person serving the document.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

Electronic service
 36B.—(1) The Registrar may —
       (a) provide an electronic service for the service of any
            document that is required or authorised by this Act to be
            served on any person; and
       (b) assign to any person an account with the electronic service.
 (2) Despite section 36A, where a person has given consent for any

document to be served on the person through the electronic service —
       (a) the Registrar may serve the document on that person by
            transmitting an electronic record of the document to that
            person’s account with the electronic service; and
       (b) the document is treated as having been served at the time
            when an electronic record of the document is capable of
            being retrieved by the person.

 (3) In this section —
      “account with the electronic service”, in relation to any person,
         means an account within the electronic service that is
         assigned by the Registrar to the person for the storage and
         retrieval of electronic records relating to the person;
      “document” includes a notice, an order and a direction;
      “electronic record” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
         Electronic Transactions Act 2010.

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

Amendment of Schedule

 37.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend, add to
or vary the Schedule.

 (2) The Minister may, in any order made under subsection (1),
make any saving or transitional provision as may be necessary or
expedient.

 (3) Every order made under subsection (1) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Exemption

 38. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person
or class of persons, or any activity, from all or any provision of this
Act, subject to any conditions or restrictions that may be specified in
the order.

Regulations

 39.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for carrying out the
purposes and provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may make
regulations for or with respect to all or any of the following matters:

       (a) the registration of regulated dealers;

       (b) the duties of registered dealers;

       (c) measures for the prevention of money laundering,
            prevention of terrorism financing and prevention of the
            financing of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction,
            by regulated dealers, including —

               (i) the customer due diligence measures which must be
                   conducted by a regulated dealer;

              (ii) any additional reporting obligations by a regulated
                   dealer;

             (iii) the specific risks that must be identified and
                   assessed, and specific internal policies, procedures,
                   controls, programmes, measures or standards that
                   must be implemented, in order for a regulated

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism

                   dealer’s programmes and measures to be considered
                   adequate for the purposes of section 19(1); and

             (iv) any additional measures relating to targeted financial
                   sanctions against terrorism or to give effect to any
                   relevant FATF Recommendation which a regulated
                   dealer must take;

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

       (d) the records that must be kept by a regulated dealer, the
            period and manner of keeping the records and the
            requirement to submit the records to the Registrar;

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

       (e) the fees to be paid in respect of any application under this
            Act;

      (ea) the procedure —

               (i) for the use of the electronic service mentioned in
                   section 36B; and

              (ii) in circumstances where there is a breakdown or an
                   interruption of the electronic service;

                                                                                 [Act 6 of 2024 wef 01/05/2024]

        (f) to prescribe anything required or permitted to be
            prescribed.

 (3) Regulations made under this section may —

       (a) provide that any contravention of any provision of the
            regulations shall be an offence punishable with a fine not
            exceeding $100,000 or with imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 3 years or with both; and

       (b) provide for any saving, transitional or other consequential
            provision as is necessary or expedient.

Saving and transitional provisions

 40. Sections 48I, 48J and 48K of the Corruption, Drug Trafficking
and Other Serious Crimes (Confiscation of Benefits) Act 1992 and
the Corruption, Drug Trafficking and Other Serious Crimes (Cash
Transaction Reports) Regulations 2014 as in force immediately
before 10 April 2019, continue to apply to every person who,

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                          Precious Stones and Precious
                           Metals (Prevention of Money

                               Laundering, Terrorism
immediately before that date, was a prescribed person for the
purposes of those sections and regulations, in respect of every cash
transaction entered into by that person before 10 April 2019.

                              THE SCHEDULE

                 PRECIOUS METALS AND PRECIOUS STONES

                                                                                              Sections 2 and 37(1)

                                           PART 1
                                   PRECIOUS METALS
  1. Gold
  2. Silver
  3. Platinum
  4. Iridium
  5. Osmium
  6. Palladium
  7. Rhodium
  8. Ruthenium
  9. An alloy with at least 2% in weight of any substance mentioned in items 1
      to 8

                                           PART 2
               PRECIOUS STONES (NATURAL OR OTHERWISE)
  1. Diamond
  2. Sapphire
  3. Ruby
  4. Emerald
  5. Jade (including nephrite and jadeite)
  6. Pearl

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

PRECIOUS STONES AND PRECIOUS METALS (PREVENTION
 OF MONEY LAUNDERING, TERRORISM FINANCING AND

             PROLIFERATION FINANCING) ACT 2019

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 7 of 2019 — Precious Stones and Precious Metals (Prevention of
                          Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing) Act 2019

Bill           : 1/2019

First Reading  : 14 January 2019

Second and Third Readings : 11 February 2019

Commencement   : 10 April 2019

2. 2020 Revised Edition — Precious Stones and Precious Metals
                                    (Prevention of Money Laundering
                                    and Terrorism Financing) Act 2019

Operation      : 31 December 2021

3. Act 18 of 2022 — Financial Services and Markets Act 2022

Bill           : 4/2022

First Reading  : 14 February 2022

Second and Third Readings : 5 April 2022

Commencement   : 28 April 2023 (Section 208)

4. Act 6 of 2024 — Prevention of Proliferation Financing and Other Matters
                        Act 2024

Bill           : 2/2024

First Reading  : 9 January 2024

Second and Third Readings : 6 February 2024

Commencement   : 1 May 2024

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
.                                 ii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
                         COMPARATIVE TABLE

PRECIOUS STONES AND PRECIOUS METALS (PREVENTION
 OF MONEY LAUNDERING, TERRORISM FINANCING AND

             PROLIFERATION FINANCING) ACT 2019

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.               Act 7 of 2019
[Omitted as having had effect]
[Omitted as having had effect]  40—(1)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (2)
[Omitted as spent]
42                              41
[Omitted as spent]              42—(1)

                                   (2)
                                   (3)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2024
