             PROTECTION FROM SCAMS ACT 2025

                               (No. 1 of 2025)

                           ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                                            PART 1
                                      PRELIMINARY
Section
     1. Short title and commencement
     2. Interpretation

                                            PART 2
                                RESTRICTION ORDERS
     3. Meaning and scope of restriction orders
     4. Issue of restriction orders
     5. Duration, cancellation, variation and extension of restriction
            order
     6. Offence of contravening restriction order and composition of
            offence

                                            PART 3
                                          APPEALS
     7. Appeals against restriction orders, etc.
     8. Designation of appropriate officers to hear appeals

                                            PART 4
                                    MISCELLANEOUS
     9. Immunity for complying with restriction orders
   10. Amendment of Schedule
   11. Regulations
            The Schedule — Scam offences

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2  NO. 1 OF 2025

An Act to protect persons from scams by empowering specified
  officers to issue restriction orders to banks in Singapore prohibiting
  certain bank transactions and the grant and use of credit facilities
  temporarily.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
PROTECTION FROM SCAMS                                    3

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act is the Protection from Scams Act 2025 and comes into
operation on a date that the Minister appoints by notification in the
Gazette.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act —

      “bank” means a bank in Singapore within the meaning given by
         section 2(1) of the Banking Act 1970;

      “bank account”, in relation to a scam victim, means an account
         with a bank —

              (a) with moneys standing to the credit of, and held in the
                   name of, the scam victim; or

              (b) with moneys standing to the credit of, and held in the
                   names of, 2 or more persons, at least one of whom is
                   the scam victim;

      “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Police appointed
         under section 6(1) of the Police Force Act 2004;

      “communication device” means a machine, device or thing
         designed or capable of being used for —

              (a) sending or receiving oral or written messages, voice
                   calls or video calls;

              (b) sending or receiving electronic documents;

              (c) sending or receiving still or moving images;

              (d) sending or receiving audio or video files; or

              (e) providing access to the Internet,

         using any technology (including remote communication
         technology), and includes a mobile phone, wireless
         handheld device (such as a tablet computer) and wearable
         device (such as a smart watch);

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
4  NO. 1 OF 2025

   “credit facility” means —

           (a) an advance, a loan or other facility that is granted by a
                bank to a customer who is an individual, and that
                gives the customer access to any funds or financial
                guarantee provided by the bank; or

           (b) any other liability that is incurred by a bank on behalf
                of a customer who is an individual;

   “remote communication” means communication through —

           (a) the Internet;

           (b) telephone or any other communication device;

           (c) television or radio; or

           (d) any other kind of electronic or other technology for
                facilitating communication,

      but excludes any specific system or method of
      communication that the Minister, by order in the Gazette,
      declares is not to be treated as remote communication for the
      purposes of this Act;

   “restriction order” has the meaning given by section 3;

   “scam offence” means any offence specified in the Schedule;

   “scam victim” means an individual against whom a scam
      offence is committed or intended to be committed;

   “scammer” means any person whom a specified officer has
      reason to believe —

           (a) has committed, participated in or facilitated the
                commission of, or taken any step preparatory to, or
                in furtherance of, the commission of, any scam
                offence against a scam victim, whether in Singapore
                or elsewhere; and

           (b) has interacted with the scam victim via remote
                communication for the purposes of the activity or
                step mentioned in paragraph (a);

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
PROTECTION FROM SCAMS                                    5

“specified officer” means a police officer within the meaning
   given by section 2(1) of the Police Force Act 2004 or a
   Commercial Affairs Officer appointed under section 64(1) of
   that Act.

                                    PART 2

                         RESTRICTION ORDERS

Meaning and scope of restriction orders

 3. A restriction order is an order issued by a specified officer to one
or more banks in relation to a scam victim —

       (a) directing the bank or each of the banks not to do any of the
            following at any time when the restriction order is in force:

               (i) allow a transfer or withdrawal of money from any
                   bank account of the scam victim maintained with that
                   bank;

              (ii) grant, or allow a drawdown of, any credit facility to
                   the scam victim; and

       (b) specifying the time that the direction under paragraph (a)
            takes effect.

Issue of restriction orders

 4.—(1) A specified officer may, on receipt of any information,
issue a restriction order to one or more banks if —

       (a) the specified officer has reason to believe that a scam
            victim will —

               (i) instruct the bank or any of the banks to transfer any
                   money from a bank account to a scammer (whether
                   directly or indirectly through any intermediary);

              (ii) withdraw any money from a bank account with the
                   intention of giving the money (or any part of the
                   money) to a scammer (whether directly or indirectly
                   through any intermediary); or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
6  NO. 1 OF 2025

             (iii) apply for any credit facility from the bank or any of
                   the banks, or draw down on any credit facility
                   granted by the bank or any of the banks, with the
                   intention of benefitting a scammer by a drawdown on
                   the credit facility; and

       (b) the restriction order is necessary for the protection of the
            scam victim, having regard to —

               (i) the time required by any specified officer, relative of
                   the scam victim or other persons (including, but not
                   limited to, non‑profit organisations and
                   non‑governmental organisations) to implement any
                   measures to reduce the risk of the scam victim
                   becoming, or continuing to be, a victim of a scam
                   offence; and

              (ii) all other relevant circumstances.

 (2) In subsection (1), “relative”, in relation to a scam victim, means
the spouse, or a sibling or stepsibling, child (including an adopted
child), stepchild, grandchild or step‑grandchild, nephew or
step‑nephew, or niece or step‑niece, of the scam victim.

Duration, cancellation, variation and extension of restriction
order

 5.—(1) Subject to this section, a restriction order is in force for
30 days or any shorter period that may be specified in the order.

 (2) A specified officer may, at any time a restriction order is in
force, cancel the order.

 (3) The cancellation of a restriction order does not affect the
operation of the restriction order, or anything done or omitted to be
done in compliance with the restriction order, before the date of its
cancellation.

 (4) A specified officer may, on the application of any of the
following persons, vary a restriction order by permitting a bank
which is subject to the restriction order to allow a transfer or
withdrawal of money from a bank account of a scam victim by or on

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
PROTECTION FROM SCAMS                                    7

the instruction of the applicant, subject to any limit or terms that the
specified officer may specify to that bank:

       (a) the scam victim;

       (b) any joint account holder of that bank account.

 (5) A specified officer may, at any time a restriction order is in
force, extend the restriction order for a period not exceeding 30 days
if the specified officer is of the view that more time is required by any
specified officer to reduce the risk of the scam victim becoming, or
continuing to be, a victim of a scam offence.

 (6) A restriction order must not be extended more than 5 times
under subsection (5).

Offence of contravening restriction order and composition of
offence

 6.—(1) Any bank which contravenes a restriction order without
reasonable excuse shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $3,000.

 (2) A specified officer may compound an offence under
subsection (1) by collecting from a bank which is reasonably
suspected of having committed the offence a sum not exceeding
$1,500.

 (3) On payment of the sum of money under subsection (2), no
further proceedings are to be taken against the bank in respect of the
offence.

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Funds.

                                    PART 3

                                   APPEALS

Appeals against restriction orders, etc.

 7.—(1) Any of the following persons may appeal to the
Commissioner against any decision of a specified officer under this
Act in relation to a restriction order:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
8  NO. 1 OF 2025

       (a) a scam victim in relation to whom the restriction order is
            issued;

       (b) any joint account holder of a bank account of a scam victim
            maintained by a bank which is subject to the restriction
            order.

 (2) An appeal under this section must be —

       (a) in the prescribed form and specify the grounds on which it
            is made;

       (b) accompanied by the prescribed documents or information;
            and

       (c) made within the prescribed period after the time of receipt
            of the notification relating to the decision appealed against.

 (3) The Commissioner may reject an appeal of an appellant who
fails to comply with subsection (2).

 (4) The Commissioner may —

       (a) consider any relevant documents or information other than
            those submitted by the appellant; and

       (b) decide an appeal —

               (i) based solely on documentary evidence; and

              (ii) without holding any hearing of the appeal.

 (5) After considering the appeal, the Commissioner may —

       (a) reject the appeal and confirm the specified officer’s
            decision; or

       (b) allow the appeal and revoke, substitute or vary the
            specified officer’s decision.

 (6) The Commissioner’s decision on an appeal is final.

 (7) Every appellant and any other prescribed person must be
notified of the Commissioner’s decision under subsection (5).

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
PROTECTION FROM SCAMS                                    9

 (8) An appeal against a specified officer’s decision —

       (a) does not affect the operation of the decision appealed
            against or prevent the taking of any action to implement the
            decision; and

       (b) unless otherwise directed by the Commissioner, the
            decision appealed against must be complied with until
            the determination of the appeal.

Designation of appropriate officers to hear appeals

 8.—(1) The Commissioner may designate an appropriate officer to
hear and determine, in the Commissioner’s place, any appeals or a
specific appeal under section 7.

 (2) Upon a designation under subsection (1), any reference in
section 7 to the Commissioner includes a reference to the appropriate
officer so designated for that appeal.

 (3) In this section, “appropriate officer” means any person who is
designated by the Commissioner as a Deputy Commissioner of Police
for the purposes of any provision of the Police Force Act 2004 or its
subsidiary legislation, or in the Police General Orders, Force Orders
or Standing Orders made under that Act.

                                    PART 4
                             MISCELLANEOUS
Immunity for complying with restriction orders
 9.—(1) No criminal or civil liability is to be incurred by —
       (a) a bank; or
       (b) an officer, employee or agent of a bank,
for anything done or omitted to be done with reasonable care and in
good faith in complying with any restriction order or in the execution
or purported execution of any duty under this Act.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
10  NO. 1 OF 2025

 (2) In subsection (1), “officer”, in relation to a bank, means any
director, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar officer
of the bank, and includes —

       (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and
       (b) for a bank whose affairs are managed by its members —

            any of those members as if the member were a director of
            the bank.

Amendment of Schedule
 10. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend the Schedule.

Regulations
 11.—(1) The Minister may make regulations —
       (a) to prescribe anything that is required or permitted to be
            prescribed by this Act; and
       (b) generally for the purposes of this Act.
 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), regulations may provide for —
       (a) the person or persons (each called in this subsection an
            affected person) who must be notified of an issue,
            cancellation, variation or extension of a restriction order
            under section 4(1) or 5;
       (b) the person or persons who must notify an affected person;
       (c) the time within which an affected person must be notified;
       (d) the manner in which an affected person may be notified;
       (e) the circumstances in which an affected person is deemed to
            have received a notification; and
        (f) the procedure for an appeal under section 7.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
PROTECTION FROM SCAMS                                    11

                           THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                              Sections 2 and 10

                                  SCAM OFFENCES

1. An offence under section 416A, 417, 418, 419, 420, 420A, 424A or 424B of
   the Penal Code 1871.

2. An abetment of, or a conspiracy or an attempt to commit, an offence
   mentioned in item 1.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
