THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                  DEPOSIT INSURANCE AND

             POLICY OWNERS’ PROTECTION
                       SCHEMES ACT 2011

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                                                                   2020 Ed.

           Deposit Insurance and
         Policy Owners’ Protection

             Schemes Act 2011

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         General interpretation
     1.  Meanings of “insured deposit base” and “relevant insured
     2.  deposits”
     3.

                                       PART 2

                      DEPOSIT INSURANCE SCHEME

4. Reconstitution of Deposit Insurance Scheme
5. Membership of DI Scheme
6. Exemption from DI Scheme membership
7. Withdrawal of exemption from DI Scheme
8. Maintenance of assets in Singapore for DI Scheme members

                                        PART 3

                         DEPOSIT INSURANCE FUND

 9. Reconstitution of Deposit Insurance Fund
10. Withdrawal and application of moneys of DI Fund
11. Investment of DI Fund

                                        PART 4
             PREMIUM CONTRIBUTIONS FOR DI SCHEME

12. Premium contributions payable by DI Scheme members
13. Determination of premium rates and premium contributions
14. Notice of payment of premium contribution

                                                      1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                                2

Section   Additional premium contributions where DI Fund insufficient to
   15.    pay compensation
          Payment of premium contributions and late payment fees
   16.    Power to refund or remit premium contributions, etc.
   17.    Refund of premium contributions, etc., paid in excess
   18.    Re-computation of premium contributions and additional
   19.    premium contributions
          Disclosure of information relating to premium contributions
   20.

          PART 5

          COMPENSATION UNDER DI SCHEME

21.       Occurrence of events precipitating payment of compensation
22.       Entitlement to compensation
23.       Deposits in own right and joint accounts
24.       Restrictions on entitlement to compensation under DI Scheme
25.       Computation and method of payment of compensation under
          DI Scheme
26.       Merger or consolidation of, or acquisition by, DI Scheme
          members
27.       Subrogation
28.       Recovery of compensation paid in excess or in error under
          DI Scheme
28A.      Duties of liquidators in winding up of DI Scheme member
29.       Powers of liquidator in respect of claims against insured
          depositor

                                       PART 5A

             WITHDRAWAL IN SUPPORT OF RESOLUTION
                   MEASURE FOR DI SCHEME MEMBER

29A. Determination of Authority
29B. Regulations for this Part

                                        PART 6

                POLICY OWNERS’ PROTECTION SCHEME

30. Establishment of Policy Owners’ Protection Scheme
31. Membership of PPF Scheme
32. Exemption from PPF Scheme membership
33. Withdrawal of exemption from PPF Scheme

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
         Deposit Insurance and

         Policy Owners’ Protection

3        Schemes Act 2011                                           2020 Ed.

         PART 7

         POLICY OWNERS’ PROTECTION LIFE FUND AND
         POLICY OWNERS’ PROTECTION GENERAL FUND

Section  Establishment of Policy Owners’ Protection Life Fund and
   34.   Policy Owners’ Protection General Fund
         Withdrawal and application of moneys of PPF Life Fund and
   35.   PPF General Fund
         Investment of PPF Life Fund and PPF General Fund
   36.

                                           PART 8

                              LEVIES FOR PPF SCHEME

   37. Levies payable by PPF Scheme members
   38. Determination of levy rates and levies
   39. Notice of payment of levy
   40. Additional levies where PPF Life Fund or PPF General Fund

            insufficient to pay compensation
   41. Payment of levies and late payment fees
   42. Power to refund or remit levies, etc.
   43. Refund of levies, etc., paid in excess
   44. Re-computation of levies and additional levies
   45. Disclosure of information relating to levies

                                           PART 9

            COMPENSATION AND USE OF PPF LIFE FUND AND
                                 PPF GENERAL FUND

   46. Occurrence of events precipitating compensation or use of
            PPF Life Fund and PPF General Fund

   47. Entitlement to compensation for life business
   48. Entitlement to compensation for life business — refund of

            premiums and claim under accidental death insurance cover
   48A. Entitlement to compensation for general business
   48B. Entitlement to compensation for general business — refund of

            premiums
   49. Joint insured policies
   50. Restrictions on entitlement to compensation under PPF Scheme
   50A. Cessation of coverage under PPF Scheme
   51. Computation and method of payment of compensation under

            PPF Scheme

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                                  4

Section   Subrogation
   52.    Recovery of compensation paid in excess or in error under
   53.    PPF Scheme
          Use of PPF Life Fund or PPF General Fund for transfer or
   54.    run‑off of insurance business or for termination of insured
          policies
   54A.   Duties of liquidators in winding up of PPF Scheme member
   55.    Powers of liquidator in respect of claims against insured policy
          owner

                                       PART 10

             DEPOSIT INSURANCE AND POLICY OWNERS’
                        PROTECTION FUND AGENCY

56. Designation of company to be deposit insurance and policy
         owners’ protection fund agency

57. Objects, functions and powers of Agency
58. Amendment to constitution of Agency
59. Appointment of board of directors
60. Board to be accountable to Minister
61. Salaries, fees and allowances payable to Chairperson and

         directors
62. Appointment of Chief Executive, officers and employees, etc.
63. Rules issued by Agency for DI Scheme and PPF Scheme
64. Regulations on disclosure and operational preparedness
65. Power of court to order observance of or compliance with Rules

                                        PART 11

                                      OFFENCES

66. Offences committed by bodies corporate, etc.
67. False statements regarding membership, insured deposits and

         insured policies
68. Offence by officer
69. Duty not to provide false information to Authority or Agency
70. General penalty
71. Penalty for corporation
72. Jurisdiction of court
73. Composition of offences

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
         Deposit Insurance and

         Policy Owners’ Protection

5        Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

         PART 12

         FINANCIAL AND AUDIT PROVISIONS

Section  Financial provisions with respect to DI Fund, PPF Life Fund and
   74.   PPF General Fund
         Financial provisions with respect to Agency
   75.   Annual report of Agency
   76.   Three-year estimates of income and expenditure
   77.   Reporting to Minister
   78.

                                          PART 13

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   79. Protection from liability
   79A. Indemnity for Agency’s officers against cost of action to which

            section 79 applies
   80. Preservation of confidentiality
   81. General exemption
   82. Appointment of assistants
   83. Inspection of books of DI Scheme members and PPF Scheme

            members
   84. Provision of information and production of books
   85. Service of documents, etc.
   86. Electronic service
   87. Copies or extracts of books to be admitted in evidence
   88. Application of Companies Act 1967
   89. Insurance Act 1966 not to apply in relation to certain parts
   90. Amendment of Schedules
   91. Regulations
   92. Saving and transitional provisions

            First Schedule — Insured deposit and Maximum
                                      DI Coverage

            Second Schedule — Categories of insured policies
            Third Schedule — Protected liabilities
            Fourth Schedule — Protection ratio
            Fifth Schedule — Provisions applicable to the holding and

                                      payment of compensation by the
                                      Public Trustee to persons entitled to
                                      payment of compensation under this Act

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         6

Section

          Sixth Schedule — Financial provisions with respect to
                                    DI Fund, PPF Life Fund
                                    and PPF General Fund

          Seventh Schedule— Financial provisions with respect to
                                    Agency

An Act to reconstitute the Deposit Insurance Scheme for the purpose
  of providing limited compensation to insured depositors under
  certain circumstances, to establish a Policy Owners’ Protection
  Scheme for the purpose of compensating (in part or whole) or
  otherwise assisting or protecting insured policy owners and
  beneficiaries under certain circumstances, and for matters
  connected therewith.

                                                                  [1 May 2011]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners’ Protection
Schemes Act 2011.

General interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “accident and health policy” has the meaning given in the
         First Schedule to the Insurance Act 1966;

      “account with the electronic service”, in relation to any person,
         means a computer account within the electronic service
         which is assigned by the Authority to that person for the
         storage and retrieval of electronic records relating to that
         person;

      “Agency” means the company designated by the Minister under
         section 56 to be the deposit insurance and policy owners’
         protection fund agency;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                    Deposit Insurance and

   Policy Owners’ Protection

7                   Schemes Act 2011                        2020 Ed.

   “authentication code”, in relation to any person, means an
      identification or identifying code, a password or any other
      authentication method or procedure which is assigned to that
      person for the purposes of identifying and authenticating the
      access to and use of the electronic service by that person;

   “Authority” means the Monetary Authority of Singapore
      established under section 3 of the Monetary Authority of
      Singapore Act 1970;

   “bank” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Banking
      Act 1970;

   “beneficiary” —

   (a) in relation to an insured policy which is covered
        under the PPF Life Fund or the PPF General Fund,
        means any person entitled to claim benefits under the
        terms of that insured policy; and

   (b) in relation to an accidental death insurance cover
        provided by a PPF Scheme member before the
        inception of an insured policy, means any person
        entitled to the accidental death benefit under the
        terms of the cover;

   “book” includes any record, register, document or other record
      of information, and any account or accounting record,
      however compiled, recorded or stored, whether in written
      or printed form or on microfilm or in electronic form or
      otherwise;

   “captive insurer” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
      Insurance Act 1966;

   “Chief Executive” means the Chief Executive of the Agency
      appointed under section 62 and includes any person acting in
      that capacity;

   “claim event” means the contingency upon which policy
      moneys are payable under an insured policy;

   “client account”, in relation to an insured depositor, means an
      account maintained by the insured depositor with a

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         8

          DI Scheme member for the purpose of holding moneys by the
          insured depositor for a client of the insured depositor,
          whether or not other moneys may be held in that account;

“commuted value”, in relation to an insured policy which
   provides for the payment of an annuity, means the present
   value of the expected future payments to be made —

          (a) for a term dependant on the continuation of human
               life; or

          (b) upon the death of the life assured or surrender of the
               insured policy by the insured policy owner,

          as specified under the terms of the insured policy;

“company” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“compulsory insurance policy” means any policy of insurance
   which complies with the requirements of —

          (a) the Motor Vehicles (Third‑Party Risks and
               Compensation) Act 1960; or

          (b) the Work Injury Compensation Act 2019 or the Work
               Injury Compensation Act (Cap. 354, 2009 Revised
               Edition) repealed by that Act;

“corporation” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“coupon deposit”, in relation to any insured policy, means any
   sum of money, being part of the policy moneys which the
   insurer is obliged to pay to the insured policy owner at agreed
   intervals under the terms of the insured policy which the
   insured policy owner instructs the insurer not to pay out to the
   insured policy owner but for the sum of money to be
   deposited with the insurer to earn interest at an agreed rate;

“covered party” means —

          (a) an insured policy owner of an insured policy which is
               covered by the PPF Life Fund or the PPF General
               Fund, as the case may be;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
   Deposit Insurance and

   Policy Owners’ Protection

9  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

   (b) the trustee of a trust of an insured policy which is
        covered by the PPF Life Fund or the PPF General
        Fund (as the case may be), in that capacity; or

   (c) a beneficiary in relation to —

   (i) an insured policy which is covered by the
       PPF Life Fund or the PPF General Fund, as the
       case may be; or

   (ii) an accidental death insurance cover provided
        by a PPF Scheme member before the inception
        of an insured policy;

   “CPFIS” means the Central Provident Fund Investment Scheme
      introduced by the Central Provident Fund Board under the
      Central Provident Fund (Investment Schemes) Regulations;

   “CPFRS” means any Retirement Sum Scheme established under
      any regulations made under section 77(1) of the Central
      Provident Fund Act 1953;

   “deposit” means a sum of money paid on terms —

   (a) under which it will be repaid, with or without interest
        or a premium, or with any consideration in money or
        money’s worth, either on demand or at a time or in
        circumstances agreed by or on behalf of the person
        making the payment and the person receiving it; and

   (b) which are not referable to the provision of property or
        services;

   “deposit-taking business” has the meaning given by section 4B
      of the Banking Act 1970;

   “depositor” means any person who is entitled to repayment of a
      deposit, whether or not the deposit is made by the person;

   “DI exempt member” means a full bank or finance company
      which has been exempted by the Authority under section 6
      from the requirement to be a DI Scheme member;

   “DI Fund” means the Deposit Insurance Fund reconstituted
      under section 9;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.                 Schemes Act 2011                          10

“direct insurer” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
   Insurance Act 1966;

“DI Scheme” means the Deposit Insurance Scheme
   reconstituted under section 4;

“DI Scheme member” means a member of the DI Scheme;

“electronic record” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
   Electronic Transactions Act 2010;

“electronic service” means the electronic service provided by
   the Authority under section 86;

“excluded person” means —

          (a) any bank;

          (b) any person who carries on business activities outside
               of Singapore which, if conducted in Singapore,
               would require the person to be licensed under
               section 7 of the Banking Act 1970; and

          (c) such other person or class of persons as the Authority
              may prescribe;

“failed DI Scheme member” means a DI Scheme member in
   respect of which the Authority has made a determination that
   compensation is to be paid out of the DI Fund under
   section 21(1), and any reference to “failure” in relation to a
   DI Scheme member is to be construed accordingly;

“failed PPF Scheme member” means a PPF Scheme member in
   respect of which the Authority has made a determination
   under section 46(1) that the PPF Life Fund or the
   PPF General Fund is to be utilised for one or more of the
   purposes mentioned in section 46(2), and any reference to
   “failure” in relation to a PPF Scheme member is to be
   construed accordingly;

“finance company” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
   Finance Companies Act 1967;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

11  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    “full bank” means any bank holding a licence granted by the
       Authority under the Banking Act 1970 which permits the
       bank to carry on the full range of banking business;

    “general business” and “life business” have the meanings given
       by section 3 of the Insurance Act 1966, read with section 4(3)
       of that Act;

    “group policy” means any policy of insurance in respect of
       which the policy owner is not an individual;

    “guaranteed policy liabilities”, in relation to insured policies,
       means the policy liabilities, relating to benefits guaranteed
       under the insured policies only, calculated in accordance with
       regulations prescribed pursuant to section 17 of the Insurance
       Act 1966 for the valuation of assets and liabilities in an
       insurance fund;

    “health policy” means any accident and health policy which is
       not a personal accident policy;

    “individual policy” means a policy of insurance in respect of
       which the policy owner is an individual;

    “insured deposit” has the meaning given in the First Schedule;

    “insured deposit base” has the meaning given by section 3;

    “insured depositor” means any person who is not an excluded
       person and is entitled to the repayment of any insured deposit,
       whether or not the insured deposit is made by the person, and
       includes —

    (a) in the case of a deposit held by a trustee under a trust,
         the trustee; and

    (b) to avoid doubt, in the case of a deposit held by a
         depositor in a client account, the depositor;

    “insured policy” means —

    (a) any life policy;

    (b) any accident and health policy;

    (c) any compulsory insurance policy; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         12

          (d) any specified personal line insurance policy which is
               a Singapore policy;

“insured policy owner” means the policy owner of an insured
   policy;

“life policy” has the meaning given in the First Schedule to the
   Insurance Act 1966;

“liquidator” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
   Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018;

“marine mutual insurance business” means the business of
   providing the insurance of liabilities under insurance policies
   on the basis of mutual insurance —

          (a) upon goods, merchandise or property of any
               description transported on board any vessel,
               including incidental transit before and after
               shipment;

          (b) upon the freight of, or any other interest in or relating
               to, vessels;

          (c) upon vessels, or upon machinery, tackle furniture or
              equipment of vessels;

          (d) against damage arising out of or in connection with
               the use of vessels, including third‑party risks;

          (e) against risks incidental to the construction, repair or
              docking of vessels, including third‑party risks; or

          (f) against such other risks as the Authority considers to
              be connected with or incidental to marine adventures
              or any of the matters referred to in paragraphs (a)
              to (e);

“Maximum DI Coverage” has the meaning given in the
   First Schedule;

“non-voluntary group insurance policy” means a group policy to
   insure the lives of certain individuals which is not taken out at
   the request or discretion of any of the life assureds;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

13  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    “officer” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Banking
       Act 1970;

    “parent bank” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
       Banking Act 1970;

    “parent supervisory authority” has the meaning given by
       section 2(1) of the Banking Act 1970;

    “personal accident policy” means an accident and health policy
       in respect of which accident and health benefits are paid out
       only —

    (a) in the event of an injury to, or disability of, the life
         assured as a result of accident;

    (b) on the death by accident of the life assured; or

    (c) on the occurrence of a combination of the events
        referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b);

    “policy” has the meaning given in the First Schedule to the
       Insurance Act 1966;

    “policy owner” has the meaning given in the First Schedule to
       the Insurance Act 1966;

    “PPF exempt member” means a relevant insurer which has been
       exempted by the Authority under section 32 from the
       requirement to be a PPF Scheme member;

    “PPF General Fund” means the Policy Owners’ Protection
       General Fund established under section 34(1)(b);

    “PPF Life Fund” means the Policy Owners’ Protection Life
       Fund established under section 34(1)(a);

    “PPF Scheme” means the Policy Owners’ Protection Scheme
       established under section 30;

    “PPF Scheme member” means a member of the PPF Scheme;

    “premium year”, in relation to the determination and payment of
       premium contributions and levies, means such period as may
       be prescribed by the Authority as a premium year —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         14

          (a) under section 12(4), in respect of the premium
               contributions payable by DI Scheme members; or

          (b) under section 37(4), in respect of the levies payable
               by PPF Scheme members;

“prescribed product” means any product which is prescribed by
   the Authority as an insured deposit under the First Schedule;

“protected liabilities” has the meaning given in the
   Third Schedule;

“protection ratio” has the meaning given in the Fourth Schedule;

“quantification date” means —

          (a) in the case of a DI Scheme member —

          (i) that is wound up by a court in Singapore, the
              date of commencement of winding up under the
              Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
              Act 2018;

          (ii) that is wound up by a court in a country or
               territory outside Singapore, the date of
               commencement of winding up under the law
               of that country or territory;

          (iii) that is wound up by a court in Singapore and by
                a court in a country or territory outside
                Singapore, the date of commencement of
                winding up under the Insolvency,
                Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018;

          (iv) that is wound up voluntarily in Singapore, the
               date of commencement of winding up under the
               Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
               Act 2018;

          (v) that is wound up voluntarily in a country or
               territory outside Singapore, the date of
               commencement of winding up under the law
               of that country or territory;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

15  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    (vi) that is wound up voluntarily in Singapore and
         in a country or territory outside Singapore, the
         date of commencement of winding up under the
         Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
         Act 2018; or

    (vii) in respect of which the Authority determines
          that compensation be paid out of the DI Fund
          under section 21(1) (whether the DI Scheme
          member is subsequently wound up or not), the
          date on which the notice of payment of
          compensation is published in the Gazette
          under section 21(4); and

    (b) in the case of a PPF Scheme member —

    (i) that is wound up by a court in Singapore, the
        date of commencement of winding up under the
        Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
        Act 2018;

    (ii) that is wound up by a court in a country or
         territory outside Singapore, the date of
         commencement of winding up under the law
         of that country or territory;

    (iii) that is wound up by a court in Singapore and by
          a court in a country or territory outside
          Singapore, the date of commencement of
          winding up under the Insolvency,
          Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018;

    (iv) that is wound up voluntarily in Singapore, the
         date of commencement of winding up under the
         Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
         Act 2018;

    (v) that is wound up voluntarily in a country or
         territory outside Singapore, the date of
         commencement of winding up under the law
         of that country or territory;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         16

          (vi) that is wound up voluntarily in Singapore and
               in a country or territory outside Singapore, the
               date of commencement of winding up under the
               Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
               Act 2018;

          (vii) that is a co-operative society in respect of
                which the Registrar of Co‑operative Societies
                has made an order cancelling the registration of
                that society under section 89(1) of the
                Co‑operative Societies Act 1979, the date of
                the order; or

          (viii) in respect of which the Authority has made a
                 determination under section 46(1) that the
                 PPF Life Fund or the PPF General Fund is to
                 be utilised for one or more of the purposes
                 mentioned in section 46(2) (whether the
                 PPF Scheme member is subsequently wound
                 up or not), the date on which the notification of
                 the Authority’s determination is published in
                 the Gazette under section 46(6);

“relevant insured deposits” has the meaning given by section 3;

“relevant insurer” means —

          (a) a direct insurer licensed to carry on life business
               under the Insurance Act 1966 (other than a captive
               insurer); or

          (b) a direct insurer licensed to carry on general business
               under the Insurance Act 1966 (other than a captive
               insurer or specialist insurer);

“repealed Act” means the Deposit Insurance Act (Cap. 77A,
   2006 Revised Edition) repealed by this Act;

“resolution fund” means a fund established under section 108 of
   the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

                                 [Act 18 of 2022 wef 10/05/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

17  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    “resolution measure” has the meaning given by section 107 of
       the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

                                                                           [Act 18 of 2022 wef 10/05/2024]

    “Rules” means any rules issued by the Agency under section 63;

    “Singapore policy” has the meaning given in the First Schedule
       to the Insurance Act 1966;

    “specialist insurer” means —

    (a) an insurer which is licensed under section 11 of the
         Insurance Act 1966 and which is permitted by its
         licence to carry on the business of issuing financial
         guarantee policies;

    (b) an insurer which is licensed under section 11 of the
         Insurance Act 1966 as a direct insurer to carry on
         general business and which is permitted by its licence
         to carry on the business of issuing trade credit and
         political risk policies only; or

    (c) an insurer licensed under section 11 of the Insurance
        Act 1966 as a direct insurer to carry on general
        business and which is permitted to carry on marine
        mutual insurance business only;

    “specified personal line insurance policy” means any of the
       following policies of insurance issued to a natural person:

    (a) a policy of insurance which provides personal motor
         cover;

    (b) a policy of insurance which provides personal travel
         cover;

    (c) a policy of insurance which provides personal
        property (structure and contents) cover;

    (d) a policy of insurance which provides cover in
         connection with the employment of a foreign
         domestic worker;

    “Supplementary Retirement Scheme” has the meaning given by
       section 2(1) of the Income Tax Act 1947;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         18

“trustee”, in relation to a resolution fund, means the entity
   appointed under section 108(2) of the Financial Services and
   Markets Act 2022 as the trustee of the resolution fund;

                                                                       [Act 18 of 2022 wef 10/05/2024]

“trust”, in relation to an insured policy which is covered under
   the PPF Life Fund or the PPF General Fund, means —

          (a) any trust of the policy moneys created under
               section 132(2) of the Insurance Act 1966;

          (b) any trust of the objects of the insured policy created
               under section 73 of the Conveyancing and Law of
               Property Act 1886;

          (c) any express trust created by the insured policy owner
              over the policy moneys; or

          (d) any resulting or constructive trust over the policy
               moneys;

“trustee”, in relation to a trust, means a trustee of a trust in that
   capacity;

      “unclaimed moneys”, in relation to an insured policy issued by a
         failed PPF Scheme member, means any policy moneys
         which, as a result of a contingency happening, have been
         ascertained by the failed PPF Scheme member to be due and
         payable under that insured policy before the quantification
         date but which have not been paid to or have been paid but
         not yet received by the person entitled to payment of the
         policy moneys.

                                                 [11/2013; 26/2016; 31/2017; 31/2018; 40/2018; 27/2019;
                                                                                                              1/2020]

 (2) For the purposes of the definition of “deposit”, money is paid on
terms which are referable to the provision of property or services if,
and only if, it is paid by way of advance or part payment under a
contract for the sale, hire or other provision of property or services,
and is repayable only in the event that the property or services is or
are not in fact sold, hired or otherwise provided.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

19  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

Meanings of “insured deposit base” and “relevant insured
deposits”

 3.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, “insured
deposit base”, in relation to a DI Scheme member, means the
aggregate of the amount of every relevant insured deposit of all the
insured depositors of the DI Scheme member.

 (2) In subsection (1), “relevant insured deposits”, in relation to an
insured depositor of a DI Scheme member, means —

    (a) the aggregate of the amounts, not exceeding the Maximum
         DI Coverage, of insured deposits placed with the
         DI Scheme member which —

    (i) are held by that insured depositor in the insured
        depositor’s own right;

    (ii) are held by that insured depositor in the insured
         depositor’s own right jointly with one or more
         persons in a joint account;

    (iii) where the insured depositor is a sole-proprietor, are
          held in the name of the sole-proprietorship; and

    (iv) consist of moneys denominated in Singapore dollars
         placed with the failed DI Scheme member under the
         Supplementary Retirement Scheme;

    (b) the amount, not exceeding the Maximum DI Coverage, of
         insured deposits held by that insured depositor as a trustee
         under a trust in every account opened with the DI Scheme
         member;

    (c) the amount, not exceeding the Maximum DI Coverage, of
        insured deposits held by that insured depositor in every
        client account opened with the DI Scheme member;

    (d) any moneys denominated in Singapore dollars placed by
         that insured depositor with the DI Scheme member under
         the CPFIS and CPFRS, not exceeding the Maximum
         DI Coverage; and

    (e) the amount, not exceeding the Maximum DI Coverage, of
        one or more prescribed products held by that insured

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         20

           depositor and placed with the DI Scheme member, which
           the Minister has, by order in the Gazette, determined that it
           or they must not be aggregated with any of the insured
           deposits under paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) and must be
           subject to separate coverage under the DI Scheme of an
           amount not exceeding the Maximum DI Coverage,
           whether on its own or in aggregation with other
           prescribed products.

                                                                                                         [26/2016]

(3) For the purposes of subsection (2) —

(a) a reference to an insured deposit includes a reference to
     part of the insured deposit;

(b) where an insured depositor holds an insured deposit in the
     insured depositor’s own right jointly with one or more
     persons in a joint account, each of them, whether or not
     each of them is an insured depositor, is deemed to have an
     equal share in the insured deposit unless there is an express
     provision to the contrary in the books of the DI Scheme
     member;

          (c) where there are 2 or more insured depositors holding any
              insured deposit in an account under a trust or a client
              account jointly, each of them is deemed to have an equal
              interest in the insured deposit; and

(d) where the Minister does not make the determination
     referred to in subsection (2)(e) in respect of any
     prescribed product, that prescribed product must be
     aggregated with the insured deposits referred to in
     subsection (2)(a).

                                    PART 2
                   DEPOSIT INSURANCE SCHEME
Reconstitution of Deposit Insurance Scheme
 4. For the purposes of this Act, the Deposit Insurance Scheme
continues and is reconstituted in accordance with this Act for the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

21  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

benefit of insured depositors in respect of their insured deposits
placed with DI Scheme members.

Membership of DI Scheme

 5.—(1) Every full bank or finance company which is not exempted
under section 6 is a DI Scheme member so long as it holds a valid
licence under the Banking Act 1970 or the Finance Companies
Act 1967, as the case may be.

 (2) Every full bank or finance company, which holds a valid licence
under the Banking Act 1970 or the Finance Companies Act 1967 (as
the case may be) immediately before 1 May 2011, is deemed to be a
DI Scheme member from that date.

 (3) Every full bank or finance company, which is granted a licence
under the Banking Act 1970 or the Finance Companies Act 1967 (as
the case may be) on or after 1 May 2011, is a DI Scheme member
from the date on which its licence is granted.

Exemption from DI Scheme membership

 6.—(1) Any full bank or finance company may apply in writing to
the Authority to be exempted from the requirement under section 5(1)
to be a DI Scheme member.

 (2) Upon an application by a full bank or finance company under
subsection (1), the Authority may, subject to subsection (4), exempt
the full bank or finance company from the requirement under
section 5(1), and notice of every such exemption must be published in
the Gazette.

 (3) The Authority may require the applicant to provide the
Authority with such information or documents as the Authority
considers necessary in relation to the application.

 (4) Without limiting subsection (2), the Authority must, in
determining whether to grant an exemption under subsection (2),
have regard to —

       (a) the scope of deposit-taking business conducted by the
            applicant in Singapore;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         22

(b) in the case of any applicant which is a full bank
     incorporated in a jurisdiction other than Singapore —

          (i) whether the deposits accepted by its branches and
              offices located within Singapore are insured by a
              deposit insurance scheme, or any other scheme of a
              similar nature, established and maintained in the
              jurisdiction in which the full bank is incorporated
              (called in this section the foreign scheme); and

          (ii) whether the scope and level of protection available to
               those deposits under the foreign scheme are not less
               than the scope and level of protection that would be
               available to the deposits under the DI Scheme if
               those deposits were insured by the DI Scheme; and

          (c) the business activities conducted by the applicant in
              Singapore and its obligations to customers.

 (5) The Authority may, when granting any exemption under
subsection (2), impose on the DI exempt member by written notice
such conditions or restrictions relating to the exemption as the
Authority may think fit.

(6) The Authority may at any time —

(a) by written notice to a DI exempt member, add to, vary or
     revoke any existing condition or restriction imposed by the
     Authority under subsection (5); or

(b) by written notice to every DI exempt member in a
     particular class of such DI exempt members impose such
     conditions or restrictions as the Authority may think fit on
     the class.

 (7) Every DI exempt member must comply with all the conditions
and restrictions imposed on it under subsections (5) and (6).

 (8) Any DI exempt member which contravenes subsection (7) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine of $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

23  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

Withdrawal of exemption from DI Scheme

 7.—(1) The Authority may withdraw the exemption granted to a
DI exempt member under section 6(2) if —

    (a) the DI exempt member fails to comply with any condition
         or restriction imposed in respect of the exemption under
         section 6(5) or (6); or

    (b) the Authority considers it necessary to do so in the public
         interest.

 (2) Before withdrawing any exemption under subsection (1), the
Authority must —

    (a) give the DI exempt member written notice of its intention
         to do so; and

    (b) in the notice referred to in paragraph (a), call upon the
         DI exempt member to show cause, within such time as may
         be specified in the notice, why the exemption should not be
         withdrawn.

 (3) If the DI exempt member to whom a notice is given under
subsection (2) —

    (a) fails to show cause within the time specified in the notice
         or within such extended period of time as the Authority
         may allow in any particular case; or

    (b) fails to show sufficient cause,

the Authority must give written notice to the DI exempt member of
the withdrawal of the exemption and the date on which such
withdrawal is to take effect.

 (4) Where a withdrawal of exemption becomes effective, the
Authority must publish a notice of the withdrawal in the Gazette.

Maintenance of assets in Singapore for DI Scheme members

 8.—(1) The Authority may by regulations require any DI Scheme
member, or any class of DI Scheme members, to maintain, in relation
to its or their insured deposit base, such minimum amount of assets in
Singapore as may be specified in such regulations for meeting its or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         24

their liabilities in respect of insured deposits placed with the
DI Scheme member.

 (2) The Authority may make regulations which are necessary or
expedient for carrying out the purposes of this section, including
regulations for or with respect to —

(a) the circumstances under which, and the manner in which,
     the Authority may impose an asset maintenance
     requirement;

(b) the types of assets that are to be treated as assets
     maintained in Singapore and the minimum amount of
     assets for the purpose of an asset maintenance requirement;
     and

          (c) the method for the valuation of assets maintained in
              Singapore.

 (3) If the Authority is satisfied that a DI Scheme member has failed
to comply with any asset maintenance requirement under
subsection (1), the Authority may impose a financial penalty.

 (4) Any DI Scheme member which fails to comply with any asset
maintenance requirement of the Authority under subsection (1) shall
be liable to pay, upon being called to do so by the Authority, for every
day or part of a day of such failure, a financial penalty in accordance
with such formula as the Minister may, by order in the Gazette,
prescribe.

 (5) Before imposing a financial penalty on any DI Scheme member,
the Authority must —

(a) give the DI Scheme member written notice of its intention
     to do so, including the basis for its decision to impose the
     financial penalty; and

(b) in the notice referred to in paragraph (a), call upon the
     DI Scheme member to show cause, within such time as
     may be specified in the notice, why the financial penalty
     should not be imposed.

 (6) If the DI Scheme member to whom a notice is given under
subsection (5) —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

25  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    (a) fails to show cause within the time specified in the notice
         or within such extended period of time as the Authority
         may allow; or

    (b) fails to show sufficient cause,

the Authority must give written notice to the DI Scheme member of
the imposition of the financial penalty and the date by which the
payment of the financial penalty must be made.

 (7) Where a DI Scheme member is given a notice under
subsection (6), the DI Scheme member must pay the financial
penalty to the Authority by the date of payment specified in the
notice.

 (8) Any financial penalty payable under this Act is recoverable as a
debt due to the Authority by the DI Scheme member.

 (9) Despite any provision in the Limitation Act 1959, an action to
recover any financial penalty recoverable by virtue of this section
must not be brought after the expiry of 3 years from the date on which
the cause of action accrued.

 (10) Any financial penalty paid to or recovered by the Authority
must be paid into the DI Fund.

 (11) Where the Authority has commenced any proceedings in a
court to recover a financial penalty from a DI Scheme member, the
Authority is entitled to claim costs on a full indemnity basis from that
DI Scheme member.

 (12) Any DI Scheme member which is aggrieved by a decision of
the Authority to impose a financial penalty under subsection (6) may,
within 30 days after the decision of the Authority, appeal in writing to
the Minister whose decision is final and must be given effect to by the
Authority.

 (13) To avoid doubt, the period of limitation referred to in
subsection (9) must not be postponed solely on account of an
appeal under subsection (12).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         26

          PART 3

          DEPOSIT INSURANCE FUND

Reconstitution of Deposit Insurance Fund

 9.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, the Deposit Insurance Fund
continues and is reconstituted in accordance with this Act.

(2) The following must be paid into the DI Fund:

(a) all premium contributions, additional premium
     contributions and late payment fees paid by DI Scheme
     members under this Act;

(b) all moneys borrowed by the Agency for the purpose of
     performing its functions in respect of the DI Scheme under
     this Act;

          (c) all moneys recovered by the Agency from, or out of the
              assets of, failed DI Scheme members;

(d) any interest, dividend and other income derived from the
     investment of the moneys in the DI Fund;

          (e) all moneys paid to or recovered by the Authority as a
              financial penalty under section 8;

          (f) all other moneys lawfully paid into the DI Fund.

 (3) The DI Fund must be used for the objects and purposes of the
DI Scheme as provided in this Act.

 (4) The DI Fund may also be used to support a resolution measure
in relation to a DI Scheme member.

                                                                                                           [31/2017]

 (5) The DI Fund must, subject to the directions of the Minister, be
controlled and administered by the Agency, and must be maintained
by the Agency separately and apart from the PPF Life Fund and the
PPF General Fund.

 (6) To avoid doubt, the DI Fund is not a fund of the Agency or the
Authority.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

27  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

Withdrawal and application of moneys of DI Fund

 10.—(1) In carrying out the objects and purposes of the DI Scheme,
the moneys in the DI Fund may be withdrawn and applied as the
Agency considers proper for all or any of the following purposes
only:

    (a) the payment of all expenses incurred in or incidental to —

    (i) the reconstitution and maintenance of the
        DI Scheme;

    (ii) the administration and management of the DI Fund;

    (iii) the administration and management of the Agency
          and the performance of the duties and functions of
          the Agency in respect of the DI Scheme under this
          Act;

    (iv) the conduct of any investigation by the Agency for
         the purpose of determining the entitlement of insured
         depositors to any compensation; and

    (v) the submission by the Agency to the liquidator of a
         failed DI Scheme member that is being wound up of
         any consolidated proof of debt on behalf of insured
         depositors in relation to each of their insured deposits
         placed with the failed DI Scheme member that
         exceeds the Maximum DI Coverage;

    (b) the payment of any fees to agents appointed by the Agency
         for the purposes of carrying out any services in respect of
         the DI Scheme under this Act;

    (c) the repayment of any moneys borrowed by the Agency for
        the purpose of performing its functions and the payment of
        any expenses and interest incurred in connection with the
        moneys borrowed;

    (d) the withdrawal of all other moneys authorised or
         determined to be paid out of the DI Fund in accordance
         with this Act.

                                                                                                     [31/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         28

 (2) The Agency may also withdraw moneys in the DI Fund in
accordance with Part 5A to pay to the trustee of a resolution fund that
is established under Division 10 of Part 8 of the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2022 to support a resolution measure undertaken in
relation to a DI Scheme member.

                                                                                                           [31/2017]

                                                                               [Act 18 of 2022 wef 10/05/2024]

 (3) Despite subsection (1), the Authority may recover from the
Agency out of the DI Fund all expenses incurred by the Authority in
connection with the discharge of the functions and responsibilities of
the Authority under sections 8, 13, 14 and 15.

Investment of DI Fund

 11.—(1) The Agency may invest any moneys in the DI Fund in all
or any of the following:

       (a) any security issued by the Government or by the Authority;

       (b) Singapore dollar deposits placed with the Authority;

       (c) any debenture or debt security issued by Singapore Sukuk
            Pte. Ltd.;

       (d) such other investments, with the objects of capital
            preservation and maintenance of liquidity, as may be
            approved by the Minister.

 (2) The Agency may delegate, subject to such conditions or
restrictions as it thinks fit, all or any of its powers and functions
under subsection (1) to such employee or agent as it may appoint.

 (3) The Agency may pay to any person appointed under
subsection (2) a reasonable fee for any service rendered in exercise
of any power and function delegated to that person under that
subsection.

 (4) The Agency may continue to exercise any power conferred
upon it or perform any function under subsection (1) despite the
delegation of such power or function to an employee or agent under
this section.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

29  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    PART 4

    PREMIUM CONTRIBUTIONS FOR DI SCHEME

Premium contributions payable by DI Scheme members

 12.—(1) Every DI Scheme member must pay a premium
contribution for any premium year or part thereof in respect of the
insured deposits placed with the DI Scheme member.

 (2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the premium contribution
is such amount as may be computed by the Authority under
section 13.

 (3) The premium year for the DI Scheme is such period as may be
prescribed in regulations made under subsection (4).

 (4) The Authority may make regulations for the purpose of
prescribing the premium year.

Determination of premium rates and premium contributions

 13.—(1) The Authority must assess and determine the premium
rates for the purposes of computing the premium contributions
payable by DI Scheme members.

 (2) The Authority must, on the basis of the premium rates
determined under subsection (1) and the insured deposit base of a
DI Scheme member, compute the amount of premium contribution
payable by the DI Scheme member for any premium year or part
thereof.

 (3) For the purposes of assessing and determining the premium
rates and computing the amounts of premium contributions payable,
the Authority may, in consultation with the Agency, make regulations
for or in respect of all or any of the following matters:

       (a) the establishment of a system of classifying DI Scheme
            members into different categories;

       (b) the criteria and procedure for determining the category in
            which a DI Scheme member is to be classified;

       (c) the prescribing of the premium rate applicable to each
            category of DI Scheme members;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         30

(d) the manner in which the premium rate for each category of
     DI Scheme members is to be determined;

          (e) the prescribing of a minimum premium contribution
              payable by DI Scheme members;

          (f) the manner in which the amount of premium contribution
              for each category of DI Scheme members is to be
              determined;

(g) the computation of premium contribution on a pro rata
     basis where a full bank or finance company becomes a
     DI Scheme member, or is no longer exempted from the
     requirement to be a DI Scheme member, at any time during
     a premium year;

(h) the size of the DI Fund;

          (i) such other matters as the Authority considers necessary.

 (4) Regulations made pursuant to or dealing with the matters
referred to in subsection (3)(c) or (d) may provide for different
premium rates for different categories of DI Scheme members.

 (5) If the Authority wishes to amend or vary any regulations made
under subsection (3), such regulations must not be amended or varied
without consulting the Agency.

Notice of payment of premium contribution

 14.—(1) Where the Authority has computed the amount of
premium contribution payable by any DI Scheme member for any
premium year or part thereof under section 13(2), the Authority must
notify the Agency accordingly.

 (2) Upon receipt of the notification referred to in subsection (1), the
Agency must, within a reasonable time prior to the date on which the
DI Scheme member is required to pay its premium contribution under
the DI Scheme for that premium year or part thereof, give the
DI Scheme member written notice of the amount of premium
contribution payable and the date by which such premium
contribution must be paid.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

31  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

Additional premium contributions where DI Fund insufficient
to pay compensation

 15.—(1) Where, in the opinion of the Authority, there are
insufficient moneys in the DI Fund to pay any compensation due
to insured depositors under this Act, the Authority may, with the
concurrence of the Agency, determine —

    (a) that DI Scheme members be required to pay additional
         premium contributions for any premium year or part
         thereof; and

    (b) the premium rate or rates for the purposes of computing the
         additional premium contributions.

(2) Where a determination is made under subsection (1) —

    (a) the Authority must, as soon as practicable —

    (i) publish a notice in the Gazette of the requirement to
        pay additional premium contributions and the
        premium rate or rates for the purposes of
        computing the additional premium contributions
        referred to in subsection (1); and

    (ii) compute the additional premium contributions
         payable by DI Scheme members for that premium
         year or part thereof and notify the Agency
         accordingly; and

    (b) the Agency must, upon receipt of the notification referred
         to in paragraph (a)(ii), give written notice to every
         DI Scheme member of the additional premium
         contribution that that DI Scheme member is required to
         pay for that premium year or part thereof and the date by
         which the additional premium contribution must be paid.

 (3) Despite subsections (1) and (2), no DI Scheme member may,
without the prior approval of the Minister, be required to pay
additional premium contribution for any premium year exceeding
such percentage of the insured deposit base of that DI Scheme
member as the Minister may by order in the Gazette prescribe.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         32

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (3), the insured deposit base of
any DI Scheme member must be determined on such date as the
Authority may notify in the Gazette for computing the amounts of
additional premium contributions payable by DI Scheme members.

Payment of premium contributions and late payment fees

 16.—(1) Where any DI Scheme member is given written notice to
pay any premium contribution under section 14(2) or any additional
premium contribution under section 15(2) for any premium year or
part thereof, the DI Scheme member must pay to the Agency on or
before the date of payment specified in the notice, the amount of
premium contribution or additional premium contribution (as the case
may be) that the DI Scheme member is required to pay for that
premium year or part thereof.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), if a DI Scheme member fails to pay
the premium contribution or additional premium contribution or any
part thereof on or before the date of payment specified in the notice in
contravention of subsection (1) —

       (a) the Agency may, by written notice, impose on the
            DI Scheme member such late payment fee as the Agency
            may by Rules determine; and

       (b) the DI Scheme member must pay to the Agency such late
            payment fee together with the unpaid premium
            contribution or additional premium contribution (as the
            case may be) on or before the date of payment specified in
            the notice under paragraph (a).

 (3) The late payment fee referred to in subsection (2) must not
exceed the amount of premium contribution or additional premium
contribution (as the case may be) owing by the DI Scheme member.

 (4) The amount of premium contribution or additional premium
contribution owing by the DI Scheme member and the late payment
fee must be paid in such manner as may be specified in the Rules.

 (5) Without affecting any other remedy, any premium contribution,
additional premium contribution or late payment fee payable under

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

33  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

this Act is recoverable as a debt due to the Agency by the DI Scheme
member.

 (6) Where the Agency has commenced any legal proceedings in a
court in Singapore to recover any premium contribution, additional
premium contribution or late payment fee from a DI Scheme member,
the Agency is entitled to claim costs on a full indemnity basis from
that DI Scheme member.

Power to refund or remit premium contributions, etc.

 17. The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, refund or
remit in whole or in part any premium contribution or additional
premium contribution paid or payable by any DI Scheme member
under this Act.

Refund of premium contributions, etc., paid in excess

 18.—(1) Where it appears to the Authority that a DI Scheme
member has paid any premium contribution or additional premium
contribution in excess of the amount payable under this Act, the
Authority must notify the Agency accordingly.

 (2) Upon receipt of the notification referred to in subsection (1), the
Agency must refund to the DI Scheme member the amount of
premium contribution or additional premium contribution paid in
excess.

Re-computation of premium contributions and additional
premium contributions

 19.—(1) Where it appears to the Authority —

       (a) that the premium contribution for any premium year or part
            thereof —

               (i) computed by the Authority under section 13(2) and
                   notified to the Agency under section 14(1); or

              (ii) in respect of which a DI Scheme member has been
                   required to pay under section 14(2) or has so paid; or

       (b) that the additional premium contribution for any premium
            year or part thereof —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         34

          (i) computed by the Authority and notified to the
              Agency under section 15(2)(a); or

          (ii) in respect of which a DI Scheme member has been
               required to pay under section 15(2)(b) or has so paid,

is of an amount less than that which ought to have been computed,
imposed or paid (called in this section the shortfall), the Authority
may at any time during a period of 6 years after the premium year
during which there is a shortfall, re‑compute such amount of
premium contribution or additional premium contribution which
ought to have been computed, imposed or paid (as the case may be)
under this Act.

 (2) Sections 14, 15 and 16 apply, with the necessary modifications,
to any amount of premium contribution or additional premium
contribution re-computed under subsection (1) and the recovery of
any shortfall in premium contribution or additional premium
contribution upon a re-computation under that subsection as if the
reference to premium contribution or additional premium
contribution were a reference to the shortfall amount which is the
difference between —

(a) the amount of premium contribution or additional
     premium contribution as re-computed; and

(b) the amount of premium contribution or additional
     premium contribution that was originally computed,
     imposed or paid (as the case may be) under this Act.

Disclosure of information relating to premium contributions

 20.—(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), no DI Scheme member
or officer of any DI Scheme member may disclose to any person —

       (a) the premium rate applicable to that DI Scheme member;

       (b) the category in which that DI Scheme member is classified
            pursuant to section 13;

       (c) where the system of classifying DI Scheme members
            incorporates a rating of that DI Scheme member based on
            the assessment by the Authority of the risks arising from

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

35  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    the activities of that DI Scheme member, the rating of that
    DI Scheme member; and

    (d) any information which if disclosed, would enable any of
         the information referred to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) to be
         identified or deduced.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), a DI Scheme member or any officer of a
DI Scheme member may disclose to —

    (a) any director or other officer of that DI Scheme member;

    (b) in the case where the DI Scheme member is a full bank, the
         head office, parent bank or parent supervisory authority of
         that DI Scheme member; or

    (c) such other person or class of persons as the Authority may
        approve,

any of the matters referred to in subsection (1) where such disclosure
is necessary for the performance of the duties of the person referred to
in paragraph (a), (b) or (c), as the case may be.

 (3) No person to whom any DI Scheme member or an officer of any
DI Scheme member has disclosed information pursuant to
subsection (2) may disclose that information to any other person
except as approved by the Authority.

 (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (3) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both.

                                    PART 5
               COMPENSATION UNDER DI SCHEME
Occurrence of events precipitating payment of compensation
 21.—(1) Where, on or after 1 May 2011 —
       (a) an order is made by a court in Singapore or elsewhere to
            wind up a DI Scheme member;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         36

(b) a DI Scheme member is wound up voluntarily under the
     Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 or
     under the law of a country or territory outside Singapore;
     or

          (c) the Authority is of the opinion that a DI Scheme member is
              insolvent, unable or likely to become unable to meet its
              obligations, or about to suspend payments,

the Authority may determine that compensation be paid out of the
DI Fund to the insured depositors of the DI Scheme member in
accordance with this Act.

                                                                                                [31/2018; 40/2018]

 (2) Where the Authority determines that compensation be paid out
of the DI Fund under subsection (1), the Authority must immediately
give written notice to the Agency of its determination.

 (3) The written notice referred to in subsection (2) must be in such
form and contain such information as may be agreed between the
Authority and the Agency.

 (4) The Agency must, as soon as practicable upon receiving the
notice referred to in subsection (2), publish a notice in the Gazette
stating that a payment of compensation is to be made out of the
DI Fund.

Entitlement to compensation

 22.—(1) Subject to subsection (5) and section 23, where an insured
depositor has one or more insured deposits placed with a failed
DI Scheme member (other than any moneys denominated in
Singapore dollars placed with the failed DI Scheme member under
the CPFIS and CPFRS), which —

       (a) the insured depositor holds in the insured depositor’s own
            right;

       (b) the insured depositor holds in the insured depositor’s own
            right jointly with one or more other persons in a joint
            account;

       (c) the insured depositor holds in the name of the insured
            depositor’s sole‑proprietorship; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

37  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    (d) consists of moneys denominated in Singapore dollars
         placed with the failed DI Scheme member under the
         Supplementary Retirement Scheme,

the insured depositor is entitled to compensation from the DI Fund
computed on the basis of the aggregate amount, as at the
quantification date, of such insured deposits falling within
paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d), and such compensation must not
exceed the aggregate amount of such insured deposits or the
Maximum DI Coverage, whichever is lower.

                                                                                                           [26/2016]

 (2) Where any insured depositor has one or more insured deposits
placed with a failed DI Scheme member (other than moneys
denominated in Singapore dollars placed with the failed
DI Scheme member under the CPFIS and CPFRS) which the
insured depositor holds in an account as trustee under a trust or holds
in a client account, the insured depositor is entitled, in respect of
every such account, to compensation from the DI Fund, not
exceeding the amount of such insured deposits in that account or
the Maximum DI Coverage, whichever is lower.

                                                                                                           [26/2016]

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), where there are 2 or more
insured depositors holding any insured deposit in an account under a
trust or in a client account jointly, the compensation referred to in
subsection (2) must be divided equally among those insured
depositors and paid accordingly.

 (4) Where any insured deposit of any insured depositor placed with
a failed DI Scheme member consists of moneys denominated in
Singapore dollars placed with the failed DI Scheme member under
the CPFIS or CPFRS, such moneys must not be aggregated with the
insured depositor’s other insured deposits placed with that failed
DI Scheme member for the purposes of determining the amount of
compensation that the insured depositor is entitled to, and the insured
depositor is entitled, in respect of moneys denominated in Singapore
dollars placed with the failed DI Scheme member under the CPFIS
and CPFRS, to compensation from the DI Fund, not exceeding the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         38

amount of such moneys placed with the failed DI Scheme member or
the Maximum DI Coverage, whichever is lower.

                                                                                                           [26/2016]

 (5) Where an insured depositor has one or more prescribed products
placed with a failed DI Scheme member, which the Minister has, by
order in the Gazette, determined to be subject to separate coverage
under the DI Scheme (called in this section the firstmentioned
prescribed products), whether on their own or in aggregation with
other prescribed products (called in this section the other prescribed
products) —

(a) the insured depositor is entitled to compensation from the
     DI Fund computed on the basis of the aggregate amount, as
     at the quantification date —

          (i) of the firstmentioned prescribed products; or

          (ii) of the firstmentioned prescribed products in
               aggregation with the other prescribed products,

(a) as the case may be; and

(b) such compensation must not exceed —

          (i) in the case where the firstmentioned prescribed
              products are subject to separate coverage on their
              own, the aggregate of the amounts of all the
              firstmentioned prescribed products held by the
              insured depositor or the Maximum DI Coverage,
              whichever is lower; or

          (ii) in the case where the firstmentioned prescribed
               products are to be aggregated with the other
               prescribed products, the aggregate of the amounts
               of all the prescribed products held by the insured
               depositor or the Maximum DI Coverage, whichever
               is lower.

 (6) For the purposes of determining the amount of compensation
which an insured depositor is entitled under this section, the liabilities
(if any) that are owing from the insured depositor to the failed
DI Scheme member are disregarded.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

39                    Schemes Act 2011                       2020 Ed.

(7) Despite the provisions in this section —

    (a) in the case of an insured depositor who is deceased, the
         Agency must pay the compensation to the personal
         representatives of the deceased insured depositor;

    (b) in the case where, before the quantification date —

    (i) an enforcement order for attachment of a debt was
        made under the Rules of Court in respect of the
        insured deposit; and

    (ii) pursuant to the enforcement order, a notice of
         attachment with respect to the insured deposit was
         served on the failed DI Scheme member,

    (b) the Agency —

    (iii) must, subject to any order of the court in determining
          any objection to the enforcement order, pay the
          whole or part (as the case may be) of the
          compensation to the enforcement applicant; but

          (iv) is not required to pay the compensation if the insured
               deposit is released from attachment (whether by the
               consent of the enforcement applicant or otherwise);
               and

                                                                        [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

    (c) the Agency must pay the compensation to such other
        persons in such circumstances as the Minister may
        prescribe.

Deposits in own right and joint accounts

 23.—(1) Where an insured depositor holds any insured deposit in
the insured depositor’s own right, the insured depositor is entitled, in
respect of the insured deposit as at the quantification date, to
compensation from the DI Fund.

 (2) Where there are 2 or more insured depositors holding any
insured deposit, each of those insured depositors is entitled, in respect
of each insured depositor’s share in the insured deposit as at the
quantification date, to compensation from the DI Fund.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         40

 (3) For the purposes of determining the share of any insured
depositor in an insured deposit under subsection (2), each insured
depositor holding such insured deposit is deemed to have an equal
share in the insured deposit unless there is an express provision to the
contrary in the books of the failed DI Scheme member.

 (4) To avoid doubt, subsection (3) does not affect any rights as
between the persons holding such insured deposit themselves.

Restrictions on entitlement to compensation under DI Scheme

 24. Where the Agency has paid an insured depositor the full amount
of compensation payable to the insured depositor or any person
referred to in section 22(7) or both (as the case may be) in respect of
the insured depositor’s insured deposits, in accordance with this Act,
no other person is entitled, in respect of those same insured deposits,
to compensation under this Part.

Computation and method of payment of compensation under
DI Scheme

 25.—(1) The Agency must compute the amount of compensation
due to any insured depositor in respect of the insured depositor’s
insured deposits placed with a failed DI Scheme member in
accordance with this Act.

 (2) In determining the eligibility and entitlement of any insured
depositor to compensation and computing the amount of
compensation due to any insured depositor, the Agency is entitled
to rely on the books of the failed DI Scheme member and any other
books which, in the opinion of the Agency, are relevant for such
determination and computation.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), the Agency must pay the
compensation in such form and manner as may be specified in the
Rules.

 (4) The Authority may make regulations for the purposes of
payment of compensation by the Agency.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

41  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

(5) Without limiting subsection (4), such regulations may —

    (a) specify the person to whom, or the account into which,
         payment of compensation is to be made for the benefit of
         any insured depositor who is entitled to compensation
         under this Act;

    (b) provide for the payment of compensation in respect of any
         insured depositor holding insured deposits in different
         accounts;

    (c) provide for the payment of compensation into an
        equivalent account with another DI Scheme member and
        for such compensation to be held in that account in a
        manner equivalent to the manner of holding of the original
        insured deposit; and

       (d) provide for the treatment of any transfer order which has
            not been cleared and settled under the Rules of a payment
            system, in the computation of compensation due to any
            insured depositor who is entitled to compensation under
            this Act.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (6) In subsection (5)(d), “transfer order” and “Rules” have the
meanings given by the Payment and Settlement Systems (Finality and
Netting) Act 2002.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

Merger or consolidation of, or acquisition by, DI Scheme
members

 26.—(1) Where —

       (a) a DI Scheme member merges or consolidates with another
            DI Scheme member; or

       (b) a DI Scheme member (called in this section the acquiring
            DI Scheme member) acquires the deposit-taking business
            of another DI Scheme member to form part of the business
            of the acquiring DI Scheme member,

and there is a subsequent failure of the merged or consolidated
DI Scheme member or acquiring DI Scheme member (as the case

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         42

may be) within one year after the date of the merger, consolidation or
acquisition (called in this section the additional cover period), any
insured depositor, who has insured deposits placed with both of the
original DI Scheme members immediately before the merger,
consolidation or acquisition (as the case may be) is entitled to
compensation in accordance with this Act as if the merger,
consolidation or acquisition did not take place; and in respect of
the insured depositor’s insured deposits with each of the original
DI Scheme members, is entitled to compensation of an amount not
exceeding the Maximum DI Coverage or the amount of insured
deposits placed with the relevant DI Scheme member, whichever is
lower.

 (2) The Minister may extend the additional cover period for the
insured deposits under subsection (1) —

(a) where the Minister is satisfied that it is in the interest of the
     insured depositors of any DI Scheme member or the public
     to do so; or

(b) to maintain financial stability in Singapore.

Subrogation

 27.—(1) Upon payment out of the DI Fund of any compensation
under this Act to, or for the benefit of, any insured depositor in respect
of the insured depositor’s insured deposit or any person referred to in
section 22(7) in respect of that insured deposit, the Agency is
subrogated to the extent of such payment to all the rights and
remedies of —

       (a) the insured depositor;

       (b) the person who received the compensation on behalf of the
            insured depositor;

       (c) the person referred to in section 22(7);

       (d) in the case where payment is made to an insured depositor
            who is a trustee, the trustee; or

       (e) in the case where payment is made to an insured depositor
            who held the insured deposit in a client account, that
            insured depositor,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

43  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

as the case may be, in respect of the insured deposit in priority over —

    (f) the rights and remedies of the insured depositor, the person
        who received the compensation on behalf of the insured
        depositor or the person referred to in section 22(7) (as the
        case may be) in relation to that insured deposit; and

    (g) the rights and remedies of any person who is subrogated,
         whether or not before the Agency’s subrogation, to the
         rights and remedies of any of the persons referred to in
         paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) in relation to that
         insured deposit,

and may maintain an action in respect of those rights and remedies in
the name of the person referred to in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e)
(as the case may be) or in the name of the Agency, subject to
subsection (2).

 (2) Where the Agency maintains an action in respect of the rights
and remedies in the name of the person referred to in
subsection (1)(a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) (as the case may be) the
following provisions apply:

    (a) in the case where the failed DI Scheme member is not
         wound up, the Agency is entitled to recover the full amount
         of compensation claimed against the failed DI Scheme
         member, despite any liabilities owing by the insured
         depositor to the DI Scheme member;

    (b) in the case where the failed DI Scheme member is wound
         up, the insolvency rules relating to set-off do not apply in
         relation to the rights and remedies of the insured depositor.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), where the Agency is unable
to effect payment to an insured depositor (due to incorrect or outdated
addresses, in respect of accounts which are dormant or any other
reasons beyond the reasonable control of the Agency), the Agency is
deemed to have made payment out of the DI Fund of compensation
under this Act to, or for the benefit of, an insured depositor in respect
of the insured depositor’s insured deposit, if the Agency makes
payment of the compensation to the Public Trustee appointed under

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         44

the Public Trustee Act 1915 to be held on trust for the insured
depositor.

 (4) The persons referred to in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of
subsection (1), or any person who is subrogated, whether or not
before the Agency’s subrogation, to the rights and remedies of those
persons, is not entitled to receive any amount from, or out of, the
assets of the failed DI Scheme member until the Agency has been
reimbursed in full the amount of compensation paid to those persons
and any expenses under subsection (5).

 (5) Despite any provision in the Insolvency, Restructuring and
Dissolution Act 2018, the Agency is entitled —

(a) in the case where the failed DI Scheme member is wound
     up, to be reimbursed out of the assets of the failed
     DI Scheme member for the expenses incurred for or in
     respect of —

          (i) the payment of any compensation to any insured
              depositor, including any interest charged on moneys
              borrowed by the Agency for the purpose of making
              payment of any compensation to any insured
              depositor under the DI Scheme;

          (ii) the lodging of any claim with the liquidator of the
               failed DI Scheme member for any compensation that
               has been paid out to any insured depositor;

          (iii) any communication with any insured depositor and
                the public on, or relating to, the payment of any
                compensation to any insured depositor under the
                DI Scheme; and

          (iv) such other matters as may be prescribed by the
               Authority; and

(b) in any other case, to be reimbursed by the failed DI Scheme
     member or the provisional liquidator of the failed
     DI Scheme member (as the case may be) for the
     expenses incurred for or in respect of —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

45  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    (i) the payment of any compensation to any insured
        depositor, including any interest charged on moneys
        borrowed by the Agency for the purpose of making
        payment of any compensation to any insured
        depositor under the DI Scheme;

    (ii) the lodging of any claim with the provisional
         liquidator of the failed DI Scheme member for any
         compensation that has been paid out to any insured
         depositor;

    (iii) any communication with any insured depositor and
          the public on, or relating to, the payment of any
          compensation to any insured depositor under the
          DI Scheme; and

            (iv) such other matters as may be prescribed by the
                  Authority.

                                                                                             [31/2018; 40/2018]

(6) The Authority may by regulations —

    (a) provide for the manner, process or method by which the
         Agency may exercise its rights to be subrogated to the
         rights and remedies as set out in subsection (1); and

       (b) prescribe the matters mentioned in subsection (5)(a)(iv)
            and (b)(iv).

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (7) For the purposes of making payment of compensation by the
Agency to the Public Trustee under subsection (3) and payment of
compensation by the Public Trustee to insured depositors and any
person referred to in section 22(7), the Authority may, with the Public
Trustee’s concurrence and in consultation with the Agency, make
regulations for or in respect of all or any of the following matters:

    (a) the manner in which moneys paid by the Agency to the
         Public Trustee are to be paid to insured depositors or any
         person referred to in section 22(7);

    (b) the fees to be paid by the Agency to the Public Trustee and
         the manner of payment of such fees;

    (c) such other matters as the Authority considers necessary.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         46

 (8) The provisions in the Fifth Schedule apply in relation to the
holding and payment of compensation under this Act by the Public
Trustee to insured depositors and any person referred to in
section 22(7).

 (9) If the Authority wishes to amend or vary any regulations made
under subsection (7), the Authority must first conduct a joint review
with the Public Trustee and such regulations must not be amended or
varied without the Public Trustee’s concurrence and consulting the
Agency.

Recovery of compensation paid in excess or in error under
DI Scheme

 28.—(1) If —

       (a) any compensation paid to, or for the benefit of, an insured
            depositor out of the DI Fund is in excess of what ought to
            have been paid to the insured depositor under this Act; or

       (b) any compensation is paid in error to any person,

the Agency may recover the amount paid in error or excess from the
person who received the compensation, in such manner and within
such period as may be specified by the Agency to that person.

 (2) Without affecting any other remedy, any amount paid in error or
excess to any person is recoverable as a debt due to the Agency by
that person.

 (3) Despite any provision in the Limitation Act 1959, an action to
recover any amount paid in error or excess to any person recoverable
by virtue of this section must not be brought after the expiry of the
period during which the action may be brought against the person
under the Limitation Act 1959 or the date of completion of the
winding up of the failed DI Scheme member, whichever is later.

 (4) Upon the recovery of any amount paid in error or excess from
any person under this section (called in this section the recovered
amount), the Agency must do the following:

       (a) in the case where the failed DI Scheme member is not
            wound up or where the winding up of the failed DI Scheme
            member has not completed and the Agency has not

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

47  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    recovered or has not recovered in full from the failed
    DI Scheme member or its liquidator (as the case may be)
    the compensation which it paid out to the insured
    depositors, the Agency must deduct from the recovered
    amount the shortfall in compensation and pay such
    deducted amount to the DI Fund, and pay the amount
    remaining from the recovered amount after the deduction
    (if any) to the failed DI Scheme member or its liquidator, as
    the case may be;

    (b) in the case where the failed DI Scheme member is not
         wound up or where the winding up of the failed DI Scheme
         member has not completed and the Agency has recovered
         from the failed DI Scheme member or its liquidator (as the
         case may be) in full the compensation which it paid out to
         the insured depositors, the Agency must pay the recovered
         amount to the failed DI Scheme member or its liquidator,
         as the case may be;

    (c) in the case where the winding up of the failed DI Scheme
        member has completed and the Agency has not recovered
        or has not recovered in full from the liquidator the
        compensation which it paid out to the insured depositors,
        the Agency must deduct from the recovered amount the
        shortfall in compensation and pay such deducted amount to
        the DI Fund, and pay the amount remaining from the
        recovered amount after the deduction (if any) to the
        Official Receiver to be placed to the credit of the
        Companies Liquidation Account;

    (d) in the case where the winding up of the failed DI Scheme
         member has completed and the Agency has recovered from
         the liquidator in full the compensation which it paid out to
         the insured depositors, the Agency must pay the recovered
         amount to the Official Receiver to be placed to the credit of
         the Companies Liquidation Account.

 (5) Section 197(4), (7), (8), (9) and (10) of the Insolvency,
Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 applies, with the necessary

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         48

modifications, to the money paid to the Official Receiver under
subsection (4)(c) and (d).

                                                                                                           [40/2018]

Duties of liquidators in winding up of DI Scheme member

 28A.—(1) A person who —

       (a) is appointed as a liquidator under the Insolvency,
            Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 for the winding
            up of a DI Scheme member; and

       (b) has been approved by the Authority as such under
            section 54(4) of the Monetary Authority of Singapore
            Act 1970 as in force immediately before the date of
            commencement of section 205 of the Financial Services
            and Markets Act 2022 or under section 63(4) of the
            Financial Services and Markets Act 2022,

(called in this section the liquidator) must, in carrying out its
functions as a liquidator, work together with the Agency to ensure
that any insured depositor who is entitled to receive compensation
from the DI Fund receives payment from the Agency as soon as is
reasonably practicable.

                                                                                                [31/2018; 40/2018]

                                                                               [Act 18 of 2022 wef 10/05/2024]

 (2) The Authority may, by written notice to the liquidator, require
the liquidator to give the Agency such information and reasonable
assistance as the Authority considers necessary —

       (a) to ensure that any insured depositor who is entitled to
            receive compensation from the DI Fund receives payment
            from the Agency as soon as is reasonably practicable; and

       (b) to enable the Agency to fulfil its objects and discharge its
            functions under this Act.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (3) Despite any written law or rule of law but subject to
subsection (4), the liquidator must not, without the prior written
approval of the Authority, sell or transfer any assets of the DI Scheme
member being wound up to —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

49  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    (a) any person who provides services in connection with the
         winding up of the DI Scheme member; or

    (b) any person working for or on behalf of —

    (i) the Agency;

    (ii) the Authority; or

    (iii) a person mentioned in paragraph (a).

                                                             [31/2018]

 (4) Subsection (3) does not prevent the payment by the liquidator of
any debt of the DI Scheme member being wound up in accordance
with any written law or rule of law relating to the winding up of
companies.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (5) Any sale or transfer of assets by the liquidator in contravention
of subsection (3) is void.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

(6) Any liquidator who —

    (a) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
         subsection (1), or any notice issued by the Authority
         under subsection (2); or

    (b) being required to provide information to the Agency under
         subsection (2), knowingly or recklessly provides any
         information or document that is false or misleading in a
         material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

Powers of liquidator in respect of claims against insured
depositor

 29.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), despite any written law or rule
of law, where —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         50

(a) the Agency has paid compensation to an insured depositor
     or any person referred to in section 22(7) out of the
     DI Fund in accordance with this Act;

(b) such compensation is, or will be, accorded priority in the
     event of the winding up of the failed DI Scheme member
     under section 62 of the Banking Act 1970 or section 44A of
     the Finance Companies Act 1967, as the case may be; and

          (c) the failed DI Scheme member has one or more existing
              claims against the insured depositor,

the liquidator may bring legal proceedings with respect to those
claims in the name, and on behalf, of the failed DI Scheme member
against the insured depositor or any person who received
compensation on behalf of the insured depositor, to recover such
moneys as may be necessary to put the failed DI Scheme member into
the position it would have been as against the insured depositor with
respect to those claims, if —

(d) the Agency had not paid out any compensation or been
     accorded priority under section 62 of the Banking Act 1970
     or section 44A of the Finance Companies Act 1967 (as the
     case may be) in respect of the compensation paid to the
     insured depositor; and

          (e) the liquidator had applied the same rules with regard to the
              respective rights of debts provable and the valuation of
              future and contingent liabilities as are in force for the time
              being under the law relating to bankruptcy in relation to the
              estates of persons adjudged bankrupt, as if the failed
              DI Scheme member were a person so adjudged.

 (2) Such moneys are recoverable as a debt due to the failed
DI Scheme member by the insured depositor or any person who
received compensation on behalf of the insured depositor.

 (3) This section does not apply to any moneys held by the Public
Trustee pursuant to any payment of compensation by the Agency
under section 27(3).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

51  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    PART 5A

    WITHDRAWAL IN SUPPORT OF RESOLUTION
         MEASURE FOR DI SCHEME MEMBER

Determination of Authority

 29A.—(1) For the purposes of supporting a resolution measure
undertaken for a DI Scheme member and other matters relating to the
measure, the Authority may, with the Minister’s approval, make a
determination that an amount is to be paid out of the DI Fund and
given to the trustee of the resolution fund for which the resolution
measure was established.

                                                                                                           [31/2017]

 (2) The amount to be paid out of the DI Fund must not exceed the
amount of compensation that would have been paid out of the
DI Fund to the insured depositors of the DI Scheme member under
Part 5 if a determination for such compensation had been made under
section 21, after taking into account any amounts that the Agency
would have been repaid from or out of the assets of the DI Scheme
member under section 27.

                                                                                                           [31/2017]

 (3) Where the Authority determines that an amount is to be paid out
of the DI Fund for the purpose mentioned in subsection (1), the
Authority must immediately give a written notice to the Agency of its
determination.

                                                                                                           [31/2017]

 (4) The notice mentioned in subsection (3) must be in such form
and contain such information as may be agreed between the Authority
and the Agency.

                                                                                                           [31/2017]

 (5) The Agency must, as soon as practicable upon receiving the
notice mentioned in subsection (3), publish a notice in the Gazette to
the effect that a payment is to be made from the DI Fund for the
purpose mentioned in subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [31/2017]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         52

Regulations for this Part

 29B. The Authority may, in consultation with the Agency and with
the approval of the Minister, make regulations for the purpose of
section 29A, including for the following matters:

(a) the procedure for making payments out of or to the
     DI Fund;

(b) the manner of determining, for the purposes of
     section 29A(2), the amounts that the Agency would have
     been repaid from or out of the assets of the DI Scheme
     member under section 27.

                                                                                                 [31/2017]

                                    PART 6

            POLICY OWNERS’ PROTECTION SCHEME

Establishment of Policy Owners’ Protection Scheme

 30. A scheme called the Policy Owners’ Protection Scheme is
established for the purposes of compensating (in part or whole) or
otherwise assisting or protecting insured policy owners and
beneficiaries in respect of the insured policies issued by
PPF Scheme members and for securing the continuity of insurance
for insured policy owners as far as reasonably practicable.

Membership of PPF Scheme

 31.—(1) Every relevant insurer which is not exempted under
section 32 is a PPF Scheme member so long as it is licensed by the
Authority to carry on insurance business under the Insurance
Act 1966.

                                                                                                            [11/2013]

 (2) Every relevant insurer which is licensed to carry on insurance
business under the Insurance Act 1966 immediately before 1 May
2011, is deemed to be a PPF Scheme member from that date.

                                                                                                            [11/2013]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

53  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

 (3) Every relevant insurer which is licensed to carry on insurance
business under the Insurance Act 1966 on or after 1 May 2011, is a
PPF Scheme member from the date on which it is licensed.

                                                                                                            [11/2013]

Exemption from PPF Scheme membership

 32.—(1) Any relevant insurer may apply in writing to the Authority
to be exempted from the requirement under section 31(1) to be a
PPF Scheme member.

 (2) Upon application by a relevant insurer under subsection (1), the
Authority may, subject to subsection (4), exempt the relevant insurer
from the requirement under section 31(1), and notice of such
exemption must be published in the Gazette.

 (3) The Authority may require the applicant to provide the
Authority with such information or documents as the Authority
considers necessary in relation to the application.

 (4) Without limiting subsection (2), the Authority must, in
determining whether to grant an exemption under subsection (2),
have regard to —

       (a) the scope of insurance business conducted by the applicant
            in Singapore;

       (b) in the case of any applicant which is a direct insurer
            licensed to carry on general business, whether or not that
            applicant issues any insured policy;

       (c) in the case of any applicant which is incorporated in a
            jurisdiction other than Singapore —

               (i) whether the policies issued by the applicant’s
                   branches and offices located within Singapore are
                   insured by a policy owners’ protection scheme, or
                   any other scheme of a similar nature, established and
                   maintained in the jurisdiction in which the applicant
                   is incorporated (called in this section the foreign
                   scheme); and

              (ii) whether the scope and level of protection available to
                   those policies under the foreign scheme are not less

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         54

                   than the scope and level of protection that would be
                   available to the policies under the PPF Scheme if
                   those policies were insured by the PPF Scheme.

                                                                                                            [11/2013]

 (5) The Authority may, when granting any exemption under
subsection (2), impose on the PPF exempt member by written
notice such conditions or restrictions relating to the exemption as the
Authority may think fit.

(6) The Authority may at any time —

(a) by written notice to a PPF exempt member, add to, vary or
     revoke any existing condition or restriction imposed by the
     Authority under subsection (5); or

(b) by written notice to every PPF exempt member in a
     particular class of such PPF exempt members impose such
     conditions or restrictions as the Authority may think fit on
     the class.

 (7) Every PPF exempt member must comply with all the conditions
and restrictions imposed on it under subsections (5) and (6).

 (8) Any PPF exempt member which contravenes subsection (7)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine of $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Withdrawal of exemption from PPF Scheme

 33.—(1) The Authority may withdraw the exemption granted to a
PPF exempt member under section 32(2) if —

       (a) the PPF exempt member fails to comply with any condition
            or restriction imposed in respect of the exemption under
            section 32(5) or (6); or

       (b) the Authority considers it necessary to do so in the public
            interest.

 (2) Before withdrawing any exemption under subsection (1), the
Authority must —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

55  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    (a) give the PPF exempt member written notice of its intention
         to do so; and

    (b) in the notice referred to in paragraph (a), call upon the
         PPF exempt member to show cause, within such time as
         may be specified in the notice, why the exemption should
         not be withdrawn.

 (3) If the PPF exempt member to whom a notice is given under
subsection (2) —

    (a) fails to show cause within the time specified in the notice
         or within such extended period of time as the Authority
         may allow in any particular case; or

    (b) fails to show sufficient cause,

the Authority must give written notice to the PPF exempt member of
the withdrawal of the exemption and the date on which such
withdrawal is to take effect.

 (4) Where a withdrawal of exemption becomes effective, the
Authority must publish a notice of the withdrawal in the Gazette.

                                    PART 7

      POLICY OWNERS’ PROTECTION LIFE FUND AND
      POLICY OWNERS’ PROTECTION GENERAL FUND

Establishment of Policy Owners’ Protection Life Fund and
Policy Owners’ Protection General Fund

 34.—(1) There are established under the PPF Scheme 2 funds
called —

       (a) the Policy Owners’ Protection Life Fund to cover insured
            policies comprised in insurance funds established and
            maintained under section 16 of the Insurance Act 1966 by
            direct insurers licensed to carry on life business; and

       (b) the Policy Owners’ Protection General Fund to cover
            insured policies comprised in insurance funds established

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         56

           and maintained under section 16 of the Insurance Act 1966
           by direct insurers licensed to carry on general business.

                                                                                                         [11/2013]

(2) The following must be paid into the PPF Life Fund:

(a) all levies, additional levies and late payment fees paid by
     PPF Scheme members under this Act in respect of the
     insured policies comprised in insurance funds established
     and maintained under section 16 of the Insurance Act 1966
     by direct insurers licensed to carry on life business;

(b) all moneys borrowed by the Agency for the purpose of
     performing its functions under this Act in respect of the
     insured policies comprised in insurance funds established
     and maintained under section 16 of the Insurance Act 1966
     by direct insurers licensed to carry on life business;

          (c) all moneys recovered by the Agency from, or out of the
              assets of, failed PPF Scheme members under this Act in
              respect of the PPF Scheme for life business;

(d) any interest, dividend and other income derived from the
     investment of the moneys in the PPF Life Fund;

      (e) all other moneys lawfully paid into the PPF Life Fund.

                                                                                                         [11/2013]

(3) The following must be paid into the PPF General Fund:

(a) all levies, additional levies and late payment fees paid by
     PPF Scheme members under this Act in respect of the
     insured policies comprised in insurance funds established
     and maintained under section 16 of the Insurance Act 1966
     by direct insurers licensed to carry on general business;

(b) all moneys borrowed by the Agency for the purpose of
     performing its functions under this Act in respect of the
     insured policies comprised in insurance funds established
     and maintained under section 16 of the Insurance Act 1966
     by direct insurers licensed to carry on general business;

          (c) all moneys recovered by the Agency from, or out of the
              assets of, failed PPF Scheme members under this Act in
              respect of the PPF Scheme for general business;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

57  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    (d) any interest, dividend and other income derived from the
         investment of the moneys in the PPF General Fund;

       (e) all other moneys lawfully paid into the PPF General Fund.

                                                                                                            [11/2013]

 (4) The PPF Life Fund and the PPF General Fund must be used for
the objects and purposes of the PPF Scheme as provided in this Act,
and must, subject to the directions of the Minister, be controlled and
administered by the Agency.

 (5) The PPF Life Fund must be maintained by the Agency
separately and apart from the PPF General Fund and the DI Fund.

 (6) The PPF General Fund must be maintained by the Agency
separately and apart from the PPF Life Fund and the DI Fund.

 (7) To avoid doubt, the PPF Life Fund and the PPF General Fund
are not funds of the Agency or the Authority.

Withdrawal and application of moneys of PPF Life Fund and
PPF General Fund

 35.—(1) In carrying out the objects and purposes of the
PPF Scheme, the moneys in the PPF Life Fund and the
PPF General Fund may be withdrawn and applied as the Agency
considers proper for all or any of the following purposes only:

       (a) all expenses incurred in or incidental to —

               (i) the establishment and maintenance of the
                   PPF Scheme;

              (ii) the administration and management of the PPF Life
                   Fund and the PPF General Fund;

             (iii) the administration and management of the Agency
                   and the performance of the duties and functions of
                   the Agency in respect of the PPF Scheme under this
                   Act;

             (iv) the conduct of any investigation by the Agency for
                   the purpose of determining the entitlement of any
                   covered party to any compensation;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         58

          (v) the transfer of the whole or part of the insurance
               business of a failed PPF Scheme member to another
               insurer;

          (vi) the run-off of the insurance business of a failed
               PPF Scheme member;

          (vii) the termination of any insured policy issued by a
                failed PPF Scheme member; and

          (viii) the raising and repayment of any loan for, or in
                 connection with, any of the above expenses;

(b) the payment of any fees to agents appointed by the Agency
     for the purposes of carrying out any services in respect of
     the PPF Scheme under this Act;

          (c) the repayment of any moneys borrowed by the Agency for
              the purpose of performing its functions and the payment of
              any expenses and interest incurred in connection with the
              moneys borrowed;

       (d) the withdrawal of all other moneys authorised or
            determined to be paid out of the PPF Life Fund and the
            PPF General Fund in accordance with this Act.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (2) Despite subsection (1), the Authority may recover from the
Agency out of the PPF Life Fund and the PPF General Fund, all
expenses incurred by the Authority in the establishment of the
Agency and in connection with the discharge of the functions and
responsibilities of the Authority under sections 38, 39 and 40.

Investment of PPF Life Fund and PPF General Fund

 36.—(1) The Agency may invest any moneys in the PPF Life Fund
and the PPF General Fund in all or any of the following:

       (a) any security issued by the Government or by the Authority;

       (b) Singapore dollar deposits placed with the Authority;

       (c) any debenture or debt security issued by Singapore Sukuk
            Pte. Ltd.;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

59  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    (d) such other investments, with the objects of capital
         preservation and maintenance of liquidity, as may be
         approved by the Minister.

 (2) The Agency may delegate, on such conditions or restrictions as
it thinks fit, all or any of its powers and functions under subsection (1)
to such employee or agent as it may appoint.

 (3) The Agency may pay to any person appointed under
subsection (2) a reasonable fee for any service rendered in exercise
of any power and function delegated to that person under that
subsection.

 (4) The Agency may continue to exercise any power conferred
upon it or perform any function under subsection (1) despite the
delegation of such power or function to an employee or agent under
this section.

                                    PART 8

                       LEVIES FOR PPF SCHEME

Levies payable by PPF Scheme members

 37.—(1) Every PPF Scheme member must pay a levy for any
premium year or part thereof in respect of the insured policies issued
by the PPF Scheme member.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the levy is of such amount
as may be computed by the Authority under section 38.

 (3) The premium year for the PPF Scheme is the period prescribed
in regulations made under subsection (4).

 (4) The Authority may make regulations for the purpose of
prescribing the premium year.

Determination of levy rates and levies

 38.—(1) The Authority must assess and determine the levy rates for
the purposes of computing the levies payable by PPF Scheme
members.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         60

 (2) The Authority must, on the basis of the levy rates determined
under subsection (1) and —

(a) the aggregate protected liabilities of a PPF Scheme
     member, in respect of —

          (i) insured policies covered under the PPF Life Fund; or

          (ii) insured policies covered under the PPF General Fund
               where the PPF Scheme member is not taking in any
               new insurance business or renewing any existing
               insurance policy; or

(b) subject to paragraph (a)(ii), the gross premium income of a
     PPF Scheme member, in respect of insured policies
     covered under the PPF General Fund,

compute the amount of levy payable by the PPF Scheme member for
any premium year or part thereof.

 (3) For the purposes of assessing and determining the levy rates and
computing the levies payable, the Authority may, in consultation with
the Agency, make regulations for or in respect of all or any of the
following matters:

(a) the establishment of a system of classifying PPF Scheme
     members into different categories;

(b) the criteria and procedure for determining the category in
     which a PPF Scheme member is to be classified;

          (c) the prescribing of the levy rate applicable to each category
              of PPF Scheme members;

(d) the manner in which the levy rate for each category of
     PPF Scheme members is to be determined;

          (e) the prescribing of a minimum levy payable by PPF Scheme
              members;

          (f) the manner in which the amount of levy for each category
              of PPF Scheme members is to be determined;

(g) the computation of levy payable on a pro rata basis where a
     life insurer or general insurer becomes a PPF Scheme
     member, or is no longer exempted from the requirement to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

61  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    be a PPF Scheme member, at any time during a premium
    year;

    (h) the size of the PPF Life Fund and the PPF General Fund;

    (i) such other matters as the Authority considers necessary.

 (4) Regulations made pursuant to or dealing with the matters
referred to in subsection (3)(c) or (d) may provide for different levy
rates for different categories of PPF Scheme members.

 (5) If the Authority wishes to amend or vary any regulations made
under subsection (3), such regulations must not be amended or varied
without consulting the Agency.

 (6) For the purposes of computing the levies payable, insured
policies covered under the PPF Life Fund must be classified into any
of the categories in the Second Schedule.

Notice of payment of levy

 39.—(1) Where the Authority has computed the amount of levy
payable by any PPF Scheme member for any premium year or part
thereof under section 38(2), the Authority must notify the Agency
accordingly.

 (2) Upon receipt of the notification referred to in subsection (1), the
Agency must, within a reasonable time prior to the date on which the
PPF Scheme member is required to pay its levy under the
PPF Scheme for that premium year or part thereof, give the
PPF Scheme member written notice of the amount of levy payable
and the date by which such levy must be paid.

Additional levies where PPF Life Fund or PPF General Fund
insufficient to pay compensation

 40.—(1) Where, in the opinion of the Authority, there are
insufficient moneys in the PPF Life Fund or the PPF General Fund
(as the case may be) to pay any compensation due to any covered
party, to fund any transfer or run‑off of the insurance business of any
failed PPF Scheme member, or to fund the termination of any insured
policy issued by a failed PPF Scheme member under this Act, the
Authority may, with the concurrence of the Agency, determine —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         62

(a) that PPF Scheme members are required to pay additional
     levies for any premium year or part thereof; and

      (b) the levy rate or rates for the purposes of computing the
           additional levies.

                                                                                                         [31/2018]

(2) Where a determination is made under subsection (1) —

(a) the Authority must, as soon as practicable —

          (i) publish a notice in the Gazette of the requirement to
              pay additional levies and the levy rate or rates for the
              purposes of computing the additional levies referred
              to in subsection (1); and

          (ii) compute the additional levies payable by
               PPF Scheme members for that premium year or
               part thereof and notify the Agency accordingly; and

(b) the Agency must, upon receipt of the notification referred
     to in paragraph (a)(ii), give written notice to every
     PPF Scheme member of the additional levy that that
     PPF Scheme member is required to pay for that premium
     year or part thereof and the date by which the additional
     levy must be paid.

 (3) Despite subsections (1) and (2), no PPF Scheme member may,
without the prior approval of the Minister, be required to pay
additional levy for any premium year exceeding such percentage of
the protected liabilities or gross premium income (as the case may be)
of the PPF Scheme member as the Minister may, by order in the
Gazette, prescribe.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (3), the insured policy base or
gross premium income (as the case may be) of any PPF Scheme
member must be determined on such date as the Authority may notify
in the Gazette for computing the amounts of additional levies payable
by PPF Scheme members.

Payment of levies and late payment fees

 41.—(1) Where any PPF Scheme member is given written notice to
pay any levy under section 39(2) or any additional levy under

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

63  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

section 40(2) for any premium year or part thereof, the PPF Scheme
member must pay to the Agency on or before the date of payment
specified in the notice, the amount of levy or additional levy (as the
case may be) that the PPF Scheme member is required to pay for that
premium year or part thereof.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), if a PPF Scheme member fails to pay
the levy or additional levy or any part thereof on or before the date of
payment specified in the notice in contravention of subsection (1) —

    (a) the Agency may, by written notice, impose on the
         PPF Scheme member such late payment fee as the
         Agency may by Rules determine; and

    (b) the PPF Scheme member must pay to the Agency such late
         payment fee together with the unpaid levy or additional
         levy (as the case may be) on or before the date of payment
         specified in the notice under paragraph (a).

 (3) The late payment fee referred to in subsection (2) must not
exceed the amount of levy or additional levy (as the case may be)
owing by the PPF Scheme member.

 (4) The amount of levy or additional levy owing by the
PPF Scheme member and the late payment fee must be paid in
such manner as may be specified in the Rules.

 (5) Without affecting any other remedy, any levy, additional levy or
late payment fee payable under this Act is recoverable as a debt due to
the Agency by the PPF Scheme member.

 (6) Where the Agency has commenced any legal proceedings in a
court in Singapore to recover any levy, additional levy or late
payment fee from a PPF Scheme member, the Agency is entitled to
claim costs on a full indemnity basis from that PPF Scheme member.

Power to refund or remit levies, etc.

 42. The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, refund or
remit in whole or in part any levy or additional levy paid or payable
by any PPF Scheme member under this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         64

Refund of levies, etc., paid in excess

 43.—(1) Where it appears to the Authority that a PPF Scheme
member has paid any levy or additional levy in excess of the amount
payable under this Act, the Authority must notify the Agency
accordingly.

 (2) Upon receipt of the notification referred to in subsection (1), the
Agency must refund to the PPF Scheme member the amount of levy
or additional levy paid in excess.

Re-computation of levies and additional levies

 44.—(1) Where it appears to the Authority —

       (a) that the levy for any premium year or part thereof —

               (i) computed by the Authority under section 38(2) and
                   notified to the Agency under section 39(1); or

              (ii) in respect of which a PPF Scheme member has been
                   required to pay under section 39(2) or has so paid; or

       (b) that the additional levy for any premium year or part
            thereof —

               (i) computed by the Authority and notified to the
                   Agency under section 40(2)(a); or

              (ii) in respect of which a PPF Scheme member has been
                   required to pay under section 40(2)(b) or has so paid,

is of an amount less than that which ought to have been computed,
imposed or paid (called in this section the shortfall), the Authority
may at any time during a period of 6 years after the premium year
during which there is a shortfall, re-compute such amount of levy or
additional levy which ought to have been computed, imposed or paid
(as the case may be) under this Act.

 (2) Sections 39, 40 and 41 apply, with the necessary modifications,
to any amount of levy or additional levy re‑computed under
subsection (1) and the recovery of any shortfall in levy or
additional levy upon a re-computation under that subsection as if
the reference to levy or additional levy were a reference to the
shortfall amount which is the difference between —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

65  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    (a) the amount of levy or additional levy as re-computed; and

    (b) the amount of levy or additional levy that was originally
         computed, imposed or paid (as the case may be) under this
         Act.

Disclosure of information relating to levies

 45.—(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), no PPF Scheme
member or officer of any PPF Scheme member may disclose to
any person —

       (a) the levy rate applicable to the PPF Scheme member;

       (b) the category in which the PPF Scheme member is
            classified pursuant to section 38;

       (c) where the system of classifying a PPF Scheme member
            incorporates a rating of the PPF Scheme member based on
            the assessment by the Authority of the risks arising from
            the activities of the PPF Scheme member, the rating of the
            PPF Scheme member; and

       (d) any information which if disclosed, would enable any of
            the information referred to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) to be
            identified or deduced.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), a PPF Scheme member or an officer of a
PPF Scheme member may disclose to —

       (a) any director or officer of the PPF Scheme member;

       (b) in the case where the PPF Scheme member is a branch, the
            head office, parent corporation or parent supervisory
            authority of the PPF Scheme member;

       (c) in the case where the PPF Scheme member is a company
            which is a subsidiary of a foreign corporation, the foreign
            corporation or the parent supervisory authority of the
            foreign corporation; or

       (d) such other person or class of persons as the Authority may
            approve,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         66

any of the matters referred to in subsection (1) where such disclosure
is necessary for the performance of the duties of the person referred to
in paragraph (a), (b) or (c), as the case may be.

 (3) No person to whom the PPF Scheme member or officer of the
PPF Scheme member has disclosed information pursuant to
subsection (2) may disclose that information to any other person
except as approved by the Authority.

 (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (3) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both.

                                    PART 9

     COMPENSATION AND USE OF PPF LIFE FUND AND
                          PPF GENERAL FUND

Occurrence of events precipitating compensation or use of
PPF Life Fund and PPF General Fund

 46.—(1) Where —

       (a) on or after 1 September 2011, an order is made by a court in
            Singapore or elsewhere to wind up a PPF Scheme member;

       (b) on or after 1 April 2019, a PPF Scheme member is
            voluntarily wound up under the Insolvency, Restructuring
            and Dissolution Act 2018 or under the law of a country or
            territory outside Singapore;

       (c) on or after 1 April 2019, an order is made, in respect of a
            PPF Scheme member that is a co‑operative society
            registered under the Co‑operative Societies Act 1979,
            cancelling its registration under section 89(1) of that Act;

       (d) on or after 1 September 2011, the Authority is of the
            opinion that a PPF Scheme member is insolvent, unable or
            likely to become unable to meet its obligations, or about to
            suspend payments;

                                                                               [Act 18 of 2022 wef 10/05/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

67  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    (e) on or after 1 September 2011 but before the date of
        commencement of section 205 of the Financial Services
        and Markets Act 2022, the Authority had exercised its
        powers under Part 4B of the Monetary Authority of
        Singapore Act 1970 as in force immediately before that
        date in relation to a PPF Scheme member; or

                                                                        [Act 18 of 2022 wef 10/05/2024]

    (f) on or after the date of commencement of section 205 of the
        Financial Services and Markets Act 2022, the Authority is
        exercising or is likely to exercise, or has exercised, its
        powers under Part 8 of the Financial Services and Markets
        Act 2022 in relation to a PPF Scheme member,

the Authority may determine that the PPF Life Fund or the
PPF General Fund be utilised for one or more of the purposes
mentioned in subsection (2).

                                                                                                [31/2018; 40/2018]

                                                                               [Act 18 of 2022 wef 10/05/2024]

 (2) The purposes mentioned in subsection (1) are —

    (a) to pay compensation out of the PPF Life Fund or the
         PPF General Fund to any covered party in accordance with
         this Act;

    (b) to fund, whether in whole or in part, the transfer of the
         whole or part of the business of the PPF Scheme member to
         another insurer;

    (c) to fund the run-off of the insurance business of the
        PPF Scheme member without taking in any new insurance
        business or renewing any existing policies (other than a
        policy which has a provision providing for guaranteed
        renewability); and

      (d) to fund the termination of any insured policy issued by the
           PPF Scheme member.

                                                                                                         [31/2018]

(3) For the purposes of subsection (2) —

    (a) the reference in paragraph (b) of that subsection to funding
         the transfer of the whole or part of the business of the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         68

          PPF Scheme member to another insurer includes the
          payment of compensation out of the PPF Life Fund or the
          PPF General Fund to any covered party in accordance with
          this Act that is made following from, or in consequence of,
          the transfer;

(b) the reference in paragraph (c) of that subsection to funding
     the run-off of the insurance business of the PPF Scheme
     member includes the payment of compensation out of the
     PPF Life Fund or the PPF General Fund to any covered
     party in accordance with this Act that is made following
     from, or in consequence of, the run‑off of the insurance
     business; and

          (c) the reference in paragraph (d) of that subsection to funding
              the termination of any insured policy issued by the
              PPF Scheme member includes the payment of
              compensation out of the PPF Life Fund or the
              PPF General Fund to any covered party in accordance
              with this Act that is made following from, or in
              consequence of, the termination,

and similar references in other parts of this Act are also to be
construed accordingly.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (4) Where the Authority makes any determination referred to in
subsection (1), the Authority must immediately give written notice to
the Agency of its determination.

 (5) The written notice referred to in subsection (4) must be in such
form and contain such information as may be agreed between the
Authority and the Agency.

 (6) The Agency must, as soon as practicable upon receiving the
notice referred to in subsection (4), publish a notification in the
Gazette stating that a payment of compensation is to be made out of
the PPF Life Fund or the PPF General Fund, or that the PPF Life Fund
or the PPF General Fund is to be utilised to fund the transfer or
run‑off of the insurance business of the failed PPF Scheme member,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

69  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

or to fund the termination of any insured policy issued by the failed
PPF Scheme member, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (7) Where the Authority has made a determination under
subsection (1) that the PPF Life Fund or the PPF General Fund be
utilised for the purpose mentioned in subsection (2)(c), the Authority
may make a further determination that the PPF Life Fund or the
PPF General Fund (as the case may be) be utilised for one or more of
the purposes mentioned in subsection (2)(b) or (d).

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (8) Where the Authority makes a determination under
subsection (7), the Authority must immediately give written notice
of its determination to the Agency, and subsections (5) and (6) apply
to that notice as if it were a notice given under subsection (4).

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (9) Upon receipt of the notice mentioned in subsection (4) or (8),
the Agency must take all steps necessary to give effect to the
Authority’s determination.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

Entitlement to compensation for life business

 47.—(1) Subject to subsections (3) and (6) and section 49, where an
insured policy owner has one or more insured policies covered under
the PPF Life Fund issued by a failed PPF Scheme member which —

       (a) is or are issued to the insured policy owner; or

       (b) is or are issued to the insured policy owner jointly with one
            or more other persons as joint policy owners,

a covered party is entitled to compensation from the PPF Life Fund of
one or more of the amounts mentioned in subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (2) The amounts mentioned in subsection (1) are —

       (a) in the case of a Category 1 insured policy mentioned in the
            Second Schedule, an amount equivalent to the product of
            the protection ratio mentioned in paragraph 2(a) of the
            Fourth Schedule and the amount of policy moneys payable
            in respect of that insured policy;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         70

(b) in the case of a Category 2 insured policy mentioned in the
     Second Schedule, an amount equivalent to —

          (i) the product of the protection ratio for the sum
              assured mentioned in paragraph 2(b) of the
              Fourth Schedule and the sum assured guaranteed
              under that insured policy, or (if part of the sum
              assured guaranteed under that insured policy had
              previously been paid out under the insured policy)
              the remaining amount of the sum assured in the event
              that a claim event occurs before the quantification
              date;

          (ii) the product of the protection ratio for the surrender
               value mentioned in paragraph 2(c) of the
               Fourth Schedule and, as the case may be —

          (A) the surrender value guaranteed under that
               insured policy in the event that the insured
               policy owner, or the trustee of the trust of the
               insured policy, has given written notice to the
               failed PPF Scheme member to surrender that
               insured policy before the quantification date;
               or

          (B) the remaining amount of the surrender value
               guaranteed under that insured policy in the
               event that payment of claims had been made to
               a covered party before the quantification date;
               or

          (iii) the sum of sub‑paragraphs (i) and (ii), where
                applicable;

          (c) in the case of a Category 3 insured policy mentioned in the
              Second Schedule, an amount equivalent to the product of
              the protection ratio mentioned in paragraph 2(d) of the
              Fourth Schedule and the amount of policy moneys
              guaranteed to be payable under the annuity by the failed
              PPF Scheme member; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

71  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    (d) in the case of a Category 4 insured policy mentioned in the
         Second Schedule, an amount equivalent to —

    (i) the product of the protection ratio for the sum
        assured mentioned in paragraph 2(e)(i) of the
        Fourth Schedule and the sum assured guaranteed
        under that insured policy in the event that a claim
        event occurs before the quantification date;

    (ii) the product of the protection ratio for the surrender
         value mentioned in paragraph 2(e)(ii) of the
         Fourth Schedule and the surrender value
         guaranteed under that insured policy in the event
         of a surrender before the quantification date; or

             (iii) the product of the protection ratio for the commuted
                   value mentioned in paragraph 2(e)(iii) of the
                   Fourth Schedule and the amount of policy moneys
                   which are guaranteed to be payable in the case of an
                   annuity.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), where any of the insured policies
mentioned in subsection (1) is an insured policy which is covered
under the PPF Life Fund —

    (a) the insured policy owner;

    (b) the trustee of a trust of the insured policy;

    (c) any beneficiary of the insured policy; or

    (d) any combination of persons mentioned in paragraph (a),
         (b) or (c),

is or are entitled to compensation from the PPF Life Fund of the full
amount of the protected liabilities in respect of the insured policy.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (4) Where a combination of the persons mentioned in
subsection (3)(d) are entitled to compensation from the PPF Life
Fund, their total compensation must not exceed the full amount of the
protected liabilities in respect of the insured policy.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         72

 (5) The determination of the amount of compensation payable
under an insured policy mentioned in subsection (2) must only
include the accumulated values (including interest which has accrued
on such values) of coupon deposits, advance premium payments and
unclaimed moneys under the insured policy, insofar as they relate to
an insured policy that provides fully guaranteed or partially
guaranteed benefits.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (6) Where a claim event for an insured policy has occurred, or
where an insured policy has been terminated, on or before the
quantification date, there must be deducted from the amount of
compensation mentioned in subsection (2) —

(a) any outstanding loan taken out against that insured policy;
     and

(b) any outstanding premiums owed by the policy owner for
     that insured policy.

                                                                                                 [31/2018]

Entitlement to compensation for life business — refund of
premiums and claim under accidental death insurance cover

 48.—(1) Where an insured policy owner is expressly entitled under
the contract of insurance in respect of an insured policy which is
covered under the PPF Life Fund to a refund of premiums by a failed
PPF Scheme member, a covered party is entitled to compensation
from the PPF Life Fund for the premiums in full.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (2) Where an accidental death insurance cover is provided by a
PPF Scheme member to a customer before the inception of an insured
policy, and an accidental death claim on the cover arises on or before
the quantification date, the customer’s beneficiary is entitled to
compensation from the PPF Life Fund for the accidental death benefit
under the cover upon admission of the claim.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

Entitlement to compensation for general business

 48A.—(1) Subject to subsections (2), (4), (5) and (6) and
section 49, where an insured policy owner has one or more insured

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

73  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

policies covered under the PPF General Fund issued by a failed
PPF Scheme member, which —

    (a) is or are issued to the insured policy owner; or

    (b) is or are issued to the insured policy owner jointly with one
         or more other persons as joint policy owners,

a covered party is entitled to compensation from the PPF General
Fund of the aggregate amount of the protected liabilities in respect of
the insured policy or all such insured policies.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (2) The entitlement to compensation under subsection (1) is subject
to the maximum amount of compensation that is prescribed by the
Authority for the class or type of insured policy or claim event, or
both.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (3) The Authority may make regulations to prescribe the maximum
amount of compensation that a covered party is entitled to under
subsection (1) for each class or type of insured policy or claim event,
or both.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), where any of the insured policies
mentioned in subsection (1) is an insured policy which is covered
under the PPF General Fund —

    (a) the insured policy owner;

    (b) the trustee of a trust of the insured policy;

    (c) any beneficiary of the insured policy; or

    (d) any combination of persons mentioned in paragraph (a),
         (b) or (c),

is or are entitled to compensation from the PPF General Fund of the
full amount of the protected liabilities in respect of the insured policy.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (5) Where a combination of the persons mentioned in
subsection (4)(d) is entitled to compensation from the PPF General
Fund, their total compensation must not exceed the full amount of the
protected liabilities in respect of the insured policy.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         74

 (6) Where a claim event for an insured policy has occurred, or
where an insured policy has been terminated, on or before the
quantification date, the compensation under subsection (1) is to be
reduced by the amount of all outstanding premiums due under the
insured policy at the time of the claim event.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

Entitlement to compensation for general business — refund of
premiums

 48B. Where an insured policy owner is expressly entitled under the
contract of insurance in respect of an insured policy which is covered
under the PPF General Fund to a refund of premiums by a failed
PPF Scheme member, a covered party is entitled to compensation
from the PPF General Fund for the premiums in full.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

Joint insured policies

 49.—(1) Where there are 2 or more insured policy owners in
respect of any insured policy, each of those insured policy owners is
entitled, as at the quantification date, to compensation from the
PPF Life Fund or the PPF General Fund, as the case may be.

 (2) For the purposes of determining the share of an insured policy
owner in an insured policy under subsection (1), each insured policy
owner holding such insured policy is deemed to have an equal share
in the insured policy unless there is an express provision to the
contrary in the books of the failed PPF Scheme member.

 (3) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) does not affect any rights as
between the insured policy owners themselves.

Restrictions on entitlement to compensation under
PPF Scheme

 50. A person is not entitled to compensation under this Part in
respect of an insured policy, or an accidental death insurance cover
mentioned in section 48(2), if the Agency has, in respect of the
insured policy or accidental death insurance cover, paid to —

       (a) the insured policy owner;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

75  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    (b) a trustee of a trust of the insured policy;

    (c) a beneficiary of the insured policy or the accidental death
        insurance cover;

    (d) the insured policy owner and a beneficiary of the insured
         policy or the accidental death insurance cover; or

    (e) a trustee of a trust of the insured policy and a beneficiary of
        the insured policy or the accidental death insurance cover,

as the case may be, the full amount of compensation payable to the
person or persons in accordance with this Act.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

Cessation of coverage under PPF Scheme

 50A.—(1) If a determination is made by the Authority for the
utilisation of the PPF Life Fund under section 46(1), the insured
policy owner of an insured policy which —

       (a) is covered by the PPF Life Fund; and

       (b) is issued by the PPF Scheme member in relation to which
            the determination was made,

is not entitled to exercise any settlement option contained in a
contract of insurance for the insured policy on or after the
quantification date.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (2) Where a settlement option contained in a contract of insurance
for an insured policy which is covered by the PPF Life Fund has been
exercised before the quantification date —

       (a) the insured policy ceases to be covered under the PPF Life
            Fund as at the date on which the settlement option was
            exercised; and

       (b) a covered party is not entitled to any compensation under
            this Part.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (3) In this section, “settlement option” means an option that is
exercisable by a covered party upon the surrender or maturity of an
insured policy, or upon a claim being made under an insured policy —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         76

(a) to leave the policy moneys ascertained to be due and
     payable under the policy with the insurer which issued the
     policy to further accrue interest on or to invest the
     payments; or

       (b) to convert the otherwise lump sum payment of the policy
            moneys ascertained to be due and payable under the policy
            to instalment payments over a fixed period.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (4) This section only applies in respect of a settlement option
contained in a contract for an insured policy if, apart from the
payment of the principal and interest or gains, or the instalment
payments, as a result of exercising the option set out in subsection (3),
no further policy moneys are payable under the insured policy on the
happening of any contingency after the exercise of the option.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

Computation and method of payment of compensation under
PPF Scheme

 51.—(1) The Agency must compute in accordance with this Act the
amount of compensation due to a covered party under an insured
policy which is covered under the PPF Life Fund or the PPF General
Fund issued by a failed PPF Scheme member.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (2) The Agency is entitled to rely on the books of the failed
PPF Scheme member, and any other books that the Agency thinks
relevant, for the purpose of determining the eligibility of, the
entitlement to, and the amount of compensation due to a covered
party under an insured policy which is covered under the PPF Life
Fund or the PPF General Fund that is issued by the failed PPF Scheme
member.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), the Agency must pay the
compensation in such form and manner as may be specified in the
Rules.

 (4) The Authority may make regulations for the purposes of
payment of compensation by the Agency.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

77  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

(5) Without limiting subsection (4), such regulations may —

    (a) specify the person to whom, or the account into which,
         payment of compensation is to be made for the benefit of
         any covered party who is entitled to compensation under
         this Act; and

    (b) provide for the payment of compensation into an
         equivalent account with a financial institution and for
         such compensation to be held in that account in a manner
         equivalent to the manner of holding of the original insured
         policy.

                                                                                                     [31/2018]

Subrogation

 52.—(1) Upon payment out of the PPF Life Fund or the
PPF General Fund of any compensation under this Act to, or for
the benefit of, any covered party, the Agency is subrogated to the
extent of such payment to all the rights and remedies of —

       (a) the insured policy owner;

       (b) the beneficiary;

       (c) the trustee of a trust of an insured policy; or

       (d) the person who received compensation on behalf of the
            insured policy owner, the trustee of a trust of an insured
            policy or the beneficiary,

as the case may be, in respect of the insured policy in priority over —

       (e) the rights and remedies of the insured policy owner or the
            person who received the compensation on behalf of the
            insured policy owner (as the case may be) in relation to that
            insured policy;

        (f) in the case where the insured policy is covered under the
            PPF Life Fund or the PPF General Fund and provides third
            party benefits, the rights and remedies of the beneficiary or
            the person who received the compensation on behalf of the
            beneficiary (as the case may be) in relation to that insured
            policy; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         78

(g) the rights and remedies of any person who is subrogated,
     whether or not before the Agency’s subrogation, to the
     rights and remedies of any of the persons referred to in
     paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) in relation to that insured
     life policy,

and may maintain an action in respect of those rights and remedies in
the name of the person referred to in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d) (as
the case may be) or in the name of the Agency, subject to
subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (2) Where the Agency maintains an action in respect of the rights
and remedies in the name of the person referred to in
subsection (1)(a), (b), (c) or (d) (as the case may be) the following
provisions apply:

(a) in the case where the failed PPF Scheme member is not
     wound up, the Agency is entitled to recover the full amount
     of compensation claimed against the failed PPF Scheme
     member, despite any liabilities owing by the insured policy
     owner to the PPF Scheme member;

       (b) in the case where the failed PPF Scheme member is wound
            up, the insolvency rules relating to set-off do not apply in
            relation to the rights and remedies of the insured policy
            owner.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), where the Agency is unable
to effect payment to any covered party (whether due to an incorrect or
outdated address, a dormant account or any other reason beyond the
reasonable control of the Agency), the Agency is treated as having
made payment out of the PPF Life Fund or the PPF General Fund (as
the case may be) of compensation under this Act to, or for the benefit
of, the covered party, if the Agency makes payment of the
compensation to the Public Trustee appointed under the Public
Trustee Act 1915 to be held on trust for the covered party.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (4) The persons referred to in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of
subsection (1), or any person who is subrogated, whether or not
before the Agency’s subrogation, to the rights and remedies of those

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

79  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

persons, is not entitled to receive any amount from, or out of, the
assets of the failed PPF Scheme member until the Agency has been
reimbursed in full the amount of compensation paid to those persons.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (5) Despite any provision in the Insolvency, Restructuring and
Dissolution Act 2018 or the Co‑operative Societies Act 1979, the
Agency is entitled —

    (a) in the case where a failed PPF Scheme member is wound
         up or dissolved, to be reimbursed out of the assets of the
         failed PPF Scheme member for the expenses incurred for
         or in respect of —

    (i) the payment of any compensation to any covered
        party, including any interest charged on moneys
        borrowed by the Agency for the purpose of making
        payment of any compensation under the
        PPF Scheme;

    (ii) the lodging of any claim with the liquidator of the
         failed PPF Scheme member for any compensation
         that has been paid out to any covered party under the
         PPF Scheme;

    (iii) any communication with any covered party and the
          public on, or relating to, the payment of any
          compensation to any covered party under the
          PPF Scheme; and

    (iv) such other matters as may be prescribed by the
         Authority; or

    (b) in any other case, to be reimbursed by the failed
         PPF Scheme member or the provisional liquidator of the
         failed PPF Scheme member (as the case may be) for the
         expenses incurred for or in respect of —

    (i) the payment of any compensation to any covered
        party, including any interest charged on moneys
        borrowed by the Agency for the purpose of making
        payment of any compensation under the
        PPF Scheme;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         80

          (ii) the lodging of any claim with the provisional
               liquidator of the failed PPF Scheme member for
               any compensation that has been paid out to any
               covered party under the PPF Scheme;

          (iii) any communication with any covered party and the
                public on, or relating to, the payment of any
                compensation to any covered party under the
                PPF Scheme; and

            (iv) such other matters as may be prescribed by the
                  Authority.

                                                                                             [31/2018; 40/2018]

(6) The Authority may by regulations —

(a) provide for the manner, process or method by which the
     Agency may exercise its rights to be subrogated to the
     rights and remedies as set out in subsection (1); and

       (b) prescribe the matters mentioned in subsection (5)(a)(iv)
            and (b)(iv).

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (7) For the purposes of making payment of compensation by the
Agency to the Public Trustee under subsection (3) and payment of
compensation by the Public Trustee to any covered party under this
Act, the Authority may, with the Public Trustee’s concurrence and in
consultation with the Agency, make regulations for or in respect of all
or any of the following matters:

(a) the manner in which moneys paid by the Agency to the
     Public Trustee are to be paid to any covered party under
     this Act;

(b) the fees to be paid by the Agency to the Public Trustee and
     the manner of payment of such fees;

       (c) such other matters as the Authority considers necessary.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (8) The provisions in the Fifth Schedule apply in relation to the
holding and payment of compensation by the Public Trustee to
insured policy owners and beneficiaries under this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

81  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

 (9) If the Authority wishes to amend or vary any regulations made
under subsection (7), the Authority must first conduct a joint review
with the Public Trustee and such regulations must not be amended or
varied without the Public Trustee’s concurrence and consulting the
Agency.

Recovery of compensation paid in excess or in error under
PPF Scheme

 53.—(1) If —

       (a) any compensation paid to, or for the benefit of, any
            covered party is in excess of what ought to have been paid
            to the covered party under this Act; or

       (b) any compensation is paid in error to any person,

the Agency may recover the amount paid in error or excess from the
person who received the compensation, in such manner and within
such period as may be specified by the Agency to that person.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (2) Without affecting any other remedy, any amount paid in error or
excess to any person is recoverable as a debt due to the Agency by
that person.

 (3) Despite any provision in the Limitation Act 1959, an action to
recover any amount paid in error or excess to any person recoverable
by virtue of this section must not be brought after the expiry of the
period during which the action may be brought against the person
under the Limitation Act 1959 or the date of completion of the
winding up of the failed PPF Scheme member, whichever is later.

 (4) Upon the recovery of any amount paid in error or excess from
any person under this section (called in this section the recovered
amount), the Agency must do the following:

       (a) in the case where the failed PPF Scheme member is not
            wound up or where the winding up of the failed
            PPF Scheme member has not completed and the Agency
            has not recovered or has not recovered in full from the
            failed PPF Scheme member or its liquidator (as the case
            may be) the compensation which it paid out to the covered

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         82

          party, the Agency must deduct from the recovered amount
          the shortfall in compensation and pay such deducted
          amount to the PPF Life Fund or the PPF General Fund (as
          the case may be) and pay the amount remaining from the
          recovered amount after the deduction (if any) to the failed
          PPF Scheme member or its liquidator, as the case may be;

(b) in the case where the failed PPF Scheme member is not
     wound up or where the winding up of the failed
     PPF Scheme member has not completed and the Agency
     has recovered from the failed PPF Scheme member or its
     liquidator (as the case may be) in full the compensation
     which it paid out to the covered party, the Agency must pay
     the recovered amount to the failed PPF Scheme member or
     its liquidator, as the case may be;

          (c) in the case where the winding up of the failed PPF Scheme
              member has completed and the Agency has not recovered
              or has not recovered in full from the liquidator the
              compensation which it paid out to the covered party, the
              Agency must deduct from the recovered amount the
              shortfall in compensation and pay such deducted amount
              to the PPF Life Fund or the PPF General Fund (as the case
              may be) and pay the amount remaining from the recovered
              amount after the deduction (if any) to the Official Receiver
              to be placed to the credit of the Companies Liquidation
              Account;

       (d) in the case where the winding up of the failed PPF Scheme
            member has completed and the Agency has recovered from
            the liquidator in full the compensation which it paid out to
            the covered party, the Agency must pay the recovered
            amount to the Official Receiver to be placed to the credit of
            the Companies Liquidation Account.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (5) Section 197(4), (7), (8), (9) and (10) of the Insolvency,
Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 applies, with the necessary
modifications, to the money paid to the Official Receiver under
subsection (4)(c) and (d).

                                                                                                           [40/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

83  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

Use of PPF Life Fund or PPF General Fund for transfer or
run‑off of insurance business or for termination of insured
policies

54.—(1) In determining under section 46 —

    (a) whether the PPF Life Fund or the PPF General Fund is to
         be utilised to fund —

    (i) any transfer of the whole or part of the insurance
        business of the failed PPF Scheme member to
        another insurer;

    (ii) any run-off of the insurance business of the failed
         PPF Scheme member; or

    (iii) any termination of insured policies issued by the
          failed PPF Scheme member; and

    (b) the amount of the PPF Life Fund or the PPF General Fund
         to be utilised,

the Authority must (without limiting any other factor that the
Authority may consider relevant) have regard to the factors in
subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the factors are —

    (a) the costs of transferring the whole or part of the insurance
         business of the failed PPF Scheme member, running‑off
         the insurance business of the failed PPF Scheme member,
         or terminating the insured policies issued by the failed
         PPF Scheme member, as the case may be; and

       (b) the impact of not transferring the whole or part of the
            insurance business of the failed PPF Scheme member, not
            running‑off the insurance business of the failed
            PPF Scheme member, or not terminating the insured
            policies issued by the failed PPF Scheme member, as the
            case may be.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Authority must, prior to
notifying the Agency of its determination under section 46, obtain the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         84

approval of the Minister for the amount to be paid out of the PPF Life
Fund or the PPF General Fund (as the case may be) by the Agency.

 (4) Where the insurance business of a failed PPF Scheme member
is transferred to another insurer, or the insurance business is run‑off
by the Agency or by a person appointed by the Agency or the
Authority, and a contingency upon which policy moneys are payable
under an insured policy issued by the failed PPF Scheme member
occurs after the transfer, or during the run‑off, of the insurance
business —

(a) the benefits that an insured policy owner, or a trustee of a
     trust, of an insured policy which is covered under the
     PPF Life Fund or the PPF General Fund is entitled to
     receive under the insured policy; or

(b) in the case of an insured policy which is covered under the
     PPF Life Fund or the PPF General Fund and which
     provides third party benefits, the benefits that —

          (i) any insured policy owner;

          (ii) any trustee of a trust of the insured policy;

          (iii) any beneficiary of the insured policy;

          (iv) any insured policy owner and any beneficiary of the
               insured policy; or

          (v) any trustee of a trust of the insured policy and any
               beneficiary of the insured policy,

(b) as the case may be, is or are entitled to receive under the
     insured policy,

must be an amount not less than the protected liabilities in respect of
the insured policy.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (5) Where an insured policy issued by a failed PPF Scheme member
is terminated by the Agency —

(a) the benefits that a covered party is entitled to receive under
     an insured policy which is covered under the PPF Life
     Fund or the PPF General Fund; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

85  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    (b) in the case of an insured policy which is covered under the
         PPF Life Fund or the PPF General Fund and which
         provides third party benefits, the benefits that —

    (i) any insured policy owner;

    (ii) any trustee of a trust of the insured policy;

    (iii) any beneficiary of the insured policy;

    (iv) any insured policy owner and any beneficiary of the
         insured policy; or

    (v) any trustee of a trust of the insured policy and any
         beneficiary of the insured policy,

    (b) as the case may be, is or are entitled to receive under the
         insured policy,

must be an amount not less than the protected liabilities in respect of
the insured policy.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (6) The entitlement to benefits mentioned in subsections (4) and (5)
is subject to the maximum amounts of benefits prescribed by the
Authority for the class or type of insured policy.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (7) The Authority may make regulations to prescribe the maximum
amount of benefits that the persons mentioned in subsections (4)
and (5) are entitled to for each class or type of insured policy.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (8) For the purposes of subsections (4) and (5), the protected
liabilities in respect of an insured policy of the insured policy owner
must be computed in accordance with the Third Schedule.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (9) The Agency is entitled to be reimbursed by the failed
PPF Scheme member or the provisional liquidator of the failed
PPF Scheme member (as the case may be) for the expenses incurred
in —

    (a) in the event of a transfer of the whole or part of the business
         from the failed PPF Scheme member to another insurer, the
         costs and expenses of such transfer;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         86

(b) in the event of the run-off of the whole or part of the
     business of the failed PPF Scheme member, the costs and
     expenses of setting up a company to run‑off the insurance
     policies and outsourcing the administration of the
     insurance policies to a third party; and

          (c) in the event of the termination of insured policies issued by
              the failed PPF Scheme member, the costs and expenses of
              effecting such termination.

                                                                                                          [31/2018]

Duties of liquidators in winding up of PPF Scheme member

 54A.—(1) A person who —

       (a) is appointed as a liquidator under the Insolvency,
            Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 for the winding
            up of a PPF Scheme member; and

       (b) has been approved by the Authority as such under
            section 54(4) of the Monetary Authority of Singapore
            Act 1970 as in force immediately before the date of
            commencement of section 205 of the Financial Services
            and Markets Act 2022 or under section 63(4) of the
            Financial Services and Markets Act 2022,

(called in this section the liquidator) must, in carrying out its
functions as a liquidator, work together with the Agency to ensure
that any covered party who is entitled to receive compensation from
the PPF Life Fund or the PPF General Fund receives payment from
the Agency as soon as is reasonably practicable.

                                                                                                [31/2018; 40/2018]

                                                                               [Act 18 of 2022 wef 10/05/2024]

 (2) The Authority may, by written notice to the liquidator, require
the liquidator to give the Agency such information and reasonable
assistance as the Authority considers necessary —

       (a) to ensure that any covered party who is entitled to receive
            compensation from the PPF Life Fund or the PPF General
            Fund receives payment from the Agency as soon as is
            reasonably practicable; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

87  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

       (b) to enable the Agency to fulfil its objects and discharge its
            functions under this Act.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (3) Despite any written law or rule of law but subject to
subsection (4), the liquidator must not, without the prior written
approval of the Authority, sell or transfer any assets of the
PPF Scheme member being wound up to —

    (a) any person who provides services in connection with the
         winding up of the PPF Scheme member; or

    (b) any person working for or on behalf of —

    (i) the Agency;

    (ii) the Authority; or

    (iii) a person mentioned in paragraph (a).

                                                             [31/2018]

 (4) Subsection (3) does not prevent the payment by the liquidator of
any debt of the PPF Scheme member being wound up in accordance
with any written law or rule of law relating to the winding up of
companies.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (5) Any sale or transfer of assets by the liquidator in contravention
of subsection (3) is void.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

(6) Any liquidator who —

    (a) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
         subsection (1), or any notice issued by the Authority
         under subsection (2); or

    (b) being required to provide information to the Agency under
         subsection (2), knowingly or recklessly provides any
         information or document that is false or misleading in a
         material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         88

fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

Powers of liquidator in respect of claims against insured policy
owner

 55.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), despite any written law or rule
of law, where —

       (a) the Agency has paid compensation out of the PPF Life
            Fund or the PPF General Fund in accordance with this Act
            to —

               (i) any insured policy owner;

              (ii) any trustee of a trust of an insured policy;

             (iii) any beneficiary of an accidental death insurance
                   cover; or

             (iv) any combination of persons mentioned in
                   sub‑paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii);

       (b) such compensation is, or will be, accorded priority in the
            event of the winding up of the failed PPF Scheme member
            under section 123 of the Insurance Act 1966; and

       (c) the failed PPF Scheme member has one or more existing
            claims against the insured policy owner,

the liquidator may bring legal proceedings with respect to those
claims in the name, and on behalf, of the failed PPF Scheme member
against the insured policy owner or any person who received
compensation on behalf of the insured policy owner, to recover
such moneys as may be necessary to put the failed PPF Scheme
member into the position it would have been as against the insured
policy owner with respect to those claims, if —

       (d) the Agency had not paid out any compensation or been
            accorded priority under section 123 of the Insurance
            Act 1966 in respect of the compensation paid to the insured
            policy owner; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

89  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

       (e) the liquidator had applied the same rules with regard to the
            respective rights of debts provable and the valuation of
            future and contingent liabilities as are in force for the time
            being under the law relating to bankruptcy in relation to the
            estates of persons adjudged bankrupt, as if the failed
            PPF Scheme member were a person so adjudged.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (2) Such moneys are recoverable as a debt due to the failed
PPF Scheme member by the insured policy owner or any person who
received compensation on behalf of the insured policy owner.

 (3) This section does not apply to any moneys held by the Public
Trustee pursuant to any payment of compensation by the Agency
under section 52(3).

 (4) In this section, a reference to the insured policy owner includes,
where compensation has been paid by the Agency under section 48(2)
to a person entitled to accidental death benefit under the terms of an
accidental death insurance cover provided by a PPF Scheme member
to a customer before the inception of an insured policy, the customer
of the PPF Scheme member.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

                                   PART 10

         DEPOSIT INSURANCE AND POLICY OWNERS’
                    PROTECTION FUND AGENCY

Designation of company to be deposit insurance and policy
owners’ protection fund agency

 56. The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, designate a
company incorporated in Singapore to be the deposit insurance and
policy owners’ protection fund agency for the purposes of this Act.

Objects, functions and powers of Agency

 57.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the objects of the
Agency are —

       (a) to administer the DI Scheme and PPF Scheme in
            accordance with this Act;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         90

(b) to administer and manage the DI Fund, PPF Life Fund and
     PPF General Fund in accordance with this Act;

          (c) to administer and manage the insurance business of a failed
              PPF Scheme member; and

(d) to take such steps as may be directed by the Minister or
     after consultation with the Authority, to contribute to the
     stability of the financial system.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the functions of the Agency
include the following:

(a) collect premium contributions and levies payable by
     DI Scheme members and PPF Scheme members under
     this Act;

(b) make payments of compensation in respect of insured
     deposits to insured depositors out of the DI Fund after the
     Agency has determined the eligibility and entitlement of
     the depositors;

          (c) make payments of compensation out of the PPF Life Fund
              and the PPF General Fund in respect of protected liabilities
              to any covered party after the Agency has determined the
              covered party’s eligibility and entitlement;

(d) make interim payments of compensation out of the
     DI Fund to insured depositors of such amounts as the
     Agency considers appropriate;

          (e) make payments to a trustee of a resolution fund established
              for a resolution measure undertaken for a DI Scheme
              member;

          (f) make interim payments of compensation, of such amounts
              as the Agency considers appropriate, out of the PPF Life
              Fund and the PPF General Fund to any covered party;

(g) where the transfer of the whole or part of the insurance
     business from a failed PPF Scheme member, or from a
     company set up to hold the insured policies of the failed
     PPF Scheme member, to another PPF Scheme member is

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

91  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    reasonably practicable, make payment out of the PPF Life
    Fund or the PPF General Fund to fund such transfer;

    (h) make payment out of the PPF Life Fund or the PPF General
         Fund to —

    (i) fund the run-off of the insurance business of the
        failed PPF Scheme member;

    (ii) set up a company to hold the insured policies of the
         failed PPF Scheme member; and

    (iii) outsource the administration of the insured policies
          of the failed PPF Scheme member to a third party;

    (i) carry on the run-off of the insurance business of the failed
        PPF Scheme member and to set up a company to hold the
        insured policies of the failed PPF Scheme member;

    (j) carry out the termination of insured policies issued by a
        failed PPF Scheme member and make payment out of the
        PPF Life Fund or the PPF General Fund to fund such
        termination;

    (k) claim from the failed DI Scheme member for
        reimbursement of the amount of compensation paid to
        the insured depositors out of the DI Fund, together with
        any interest accrued thereon;

    (l) claim from the failed PPF Scheme member for
        reimbursement of the amount of compensation paid to
        covered parties out of the PPF Life Fund or the
        PPF General Fund, together with any accrued interest;

    (m) claim payment from the liquidator or provisional liquidator
         of a failed DI Scheme member, out of the assets of the
         failed DI Scheme member, for reimbursement of the
         amount of compensation paid to the insured depositors out
         of the DI Fund, together with any interest accrued thereon;

    (n) claim payment from the liquidator or provisional liquidator
         of a failed PPF Scheme member, out of the assets of the
         failed PPF Scheme member, for reimbursement of the
         amount of compensation paid to covered parties out of the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         92

          PPF Life Fund or the PPF General Fund, together with any
          accrued interest;

(o) educate the public on the DI Scheme and the PPF Scheme;

       (p) submit to the liquidator of a failed DI Scheme member a
            consolidated proof of debt on behalf of insured depositors
            of a failed DI Scheme member in relation to each of their
            insured deposits placed with the failed DI Scheme member
            that exceeds the Maximum DI Coverage.

                                                                                                [31/2017; 31/2018]

 (3) The Agency has the power to do anything for the purpose of
fulfilling its objects and discharging its functions under this Act or
any other written law, or which is incidental or conducive to the
fulfilment of those objects and discharge of those functions.

(4) Without limiting subsection (3), the Agency may —

(a) for the purpose of making payments of compensation to
     insured depositors in respect of their insured deposits
     under the DI Scheme, raise loans by means of a charge over
     the assets of the DI Fund; and

       (b) for the purpose of making payments out of the PPF Life
            Fund or the PPF General Fund, raise loans by means of a
            charge over the assets of the PPF Life Fund or the
            PPF General Fund.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (5) Despite sections 9(5) and 34(5) and (6), the Agency may
transfer to its account for the purpose of paying expenses of the
Agency, moneys from the DI Fund, PPF Life Fund and PPF General
Fund up to the amount approved under section 77 by the Minister as
estimates and supplementary estimates of income and expenditure of
the DI Fund, PPF Life Fund and PPF General Fund.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

Amendment to constitution of Agency

 58.—(1) Despite any provision in the Companies Act 1967, the
Agency must not amend the constitution of the Agency without the
prior approval of the Minister.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

93  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

 (2) Any amendment made to the constitution of the Agency without
the prior approval of the Minister is void.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

Appointment of board of directors

 59.—(1) This section has effect despite any provision in the
Companies Act 1967 and the constitution of the Agency.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (2) The board of directors of the Agency consists of —

       (a) a Chairperson who must be appointed by the board of
            directors; and

       (b) not less than 4 but not more than 9 other directors.

 (3) A director holds office for a term not exceeding 3 years and is
eligible for re‑appointment.

 (4) No person may be appointed as or remain a director on the board
of directors if the person is a substantial shareholder, a director or an
employee of —

       (a) any DI Scheme member or PPF Scheme member; or

       (b) a related corporation of any DI Scheme member or
            PPF Scheme member.

 (5) In this section —

      “related corporation” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of
         the Companies Act 1967;

      “substantial shareholder” has the meaning given by section 81 of
         the Companies Act 1967.

Board to be accountable to Minister

 60. The board of directors is accountable to the Minister for its acts
and decisions.

Salaries, fees and allowances payable to Chairperson and
directors

 61. There are to be paid to the Chairperson of the board of directors
and directors of the Agency out of the DI Fund, PPF Life Fund and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         94

PPF General Fund such salaries, fees and allowances as the Minister
may determine upon the recommendation of the Agency.

Appointment of Chief Executive, officers and employees, etc.

 62.—(1) The board of directors must appoint a Chief Executive on
such terms and conditions as the board may determine.

 (2) The Chief Executive is —

       (a) known by such designation as the board of directors may
            determine; and

       (b) responsible to the board of directors for the proper
            administration and management of the functions and
            affairs of the Agency in accordance with the policies and
            directions laid down by the board.

 (3) Where the Chief Executive is temporarily absent from
Singapore or temporarily incapacitated by reason of illness, or is
for any other reason temporarily unable to perform his or her duties, a
person may be appointed by the board of directors to act in the place
of the Chief Executive during any such period of absence from duty.

 (4) The Agency may appoint and employ on such terms and
conditions as it may determine, such other officers, employees,
consultants and agents as may be necessary for the effective
performance of its functions.

Rules issued by Agency for DI Scheme and PPF Scheme

 63.—(1) The Agency may issue, and in its discretion publish for
information in the Gazette or in any other manner as it considers
appropriate, Rules for any matter relating to any of its functions under
this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), such Rules may provide for —

       (a) the manner and method of collection of premium
            contributions, levies and late payment fees;

       (b) the manner of disclosure by DI Scheme members as to
            whether their products are insured deposits;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

95  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    (c) the manner of disclosure by PPF Scheme members as to
        whether their products are insured policies;

    (d) the particulars to be recorded in, or in respect of, books
         kept by DI Scheme members for the purpose of computing
         the amount of insured deposits placed with the DI Scheme
         members, and the particulars to be recorded in, or in
         respect of, books kept by PPF Scheme members for the
         purpose of confirming the insured policies issued by the
         PPF Scheme members;

    (e) the manner in which compensation is to be paid to the
        following persons:

    (i) insured depositors and persons mentioned in
        section 22(7) from the DI Fund;

    (ii) any covered party from the PPF Life Fund and the
         PPF General Fund;

    (f) the collection from any DI Scheme member by the Agency
        of any information in relation to its insured deposits and
        insured depositors, for the purpose of computing the
        amount of compensation which is to be paid to the insured
        depositors; and

       (g) the collection from any PPF Scheme member by the
            Agency of any information in relation to the insured
            policies and any covered party for the purpose of
            computing the amount of compensation that is to be paid
            to the covered party.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (3) The Agency may, at any time, amend or revoke the whole or
part of any Rule issued under this section.

 (4) Without limiting the operation of any other provision of this
Act, the Rules bind the Agency, the DI Scheme members and the
PPF Scheme members to the same extent as if the Rules had been
contained in properly executed agreements on the part of the Agency
and each DI Scheme member, or the Agency and each PPF Scheme
member (as the case may be) to observe and comply with all the
Rules.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         96

 (5) To avoid doubt, no person, other than the Agency, a DI Scheme
member or a PPF Scheme member, has any right to enforce the
observance of or compliance with any of the Rules where such Rule is
relevant.

 (6) To avoid doubt, any Rules issued under this section are deemed
not to be subsidiary legislation.

 (7) No Rule issued by the Agency may be inconsistent with any
regulations made by the Authority under this Act and any such Rule
which is so inconsistent is, to the extent of inconsistency, void.

Regulations on disclosure and operational preparedness

 64.—(1) The Authority may, for the purposes of ensuring
disclosure of relevant information by the DI Scheme members and
PPF Scheme members to the Agency, depositors, covered parties,
customers or potential customers of the DI Scheme members and
PPF Scheme members, make regulations for or in respect of all or any
of the following matters:

       (a) the disclosure by DI Scheme members and PPF Scheme
            members as to whether their products are insured deposits
            or insured policies, as the case may be;

       (b) the manner of disclosure of relevant information by
            DI Scheme members and PPF Scheme members when
            they cease to be Scheme members.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (2) The Authority may, for the purposes of ensuring the operational
preparedness of the DI Scheme members and PPF Scheme members
in the event of an occurrence of any event precipitating the use of the
DI Fund, PPF Life Fund or PPF General Fund (as the case may be)
make regulations for or in respect of all or any of the following
matters:

       (a) the necessary systems and processes that DI Scheme
            members or PPF Scheme members must have in place;

       (b) the appointment of one or more independent persons to
            assess the operational preparedness of DI Scheme
            members or PPF Scheme members;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Deposit Insurance and

    Policy Owners’ Protection

97  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

    (c) the employment of requisite personnel and qualified
        persons by DI Scheme members or PPF Scheme
        members in respect of the proper functioning of their
        systems and processes.

 (3) The regulations made under subsection (1) may provide that any
contravention of any provision of the regulations shall be an offence
punishable with a fine not exceeding $125,000 or with imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 3 years or with both and, in the case of a
continuing offence, with a further fine of $12,500 for every day or
part of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (4) The regulations made under subsection (2) may provide that any
contravention of any provision of the regulations shall be an offence
punishable with a fine not exceeding $125,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, with a further fine of $12,500 for every day or
part of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (5) Any DI Scheme member or PPF Scheme member which in
purported compliance with the regulations made under this section,
without reasonable care, discloses any information that is inaccurate,
false or misleading, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $125,000.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

Power of court to order observance of or compliance with
Rules

 65.—(1) Where any person who is bound to observe or comply
with the Rules fails to do so, the General Division of the High Court
may, on the application of the Agency, a DI Scheme member or a
PPF Scheme member, and after giving the firstmentioned person an
opportunity to be heard, make an order directing the firstmentioned
person to observe or comply with those Rules.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) This section is in addition to, and not in derogation of, any other
remedy available to the Agency, the DI Scheme member or the
PPF Scheme member.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         98

          PART 11

          OFFENCES

Offences committed by bodies corporate, etc.

 66.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     an officer; or

(b) to be attributable to any act or default on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     a partner; or

(b) to be attributable to any act or default on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by a limited
liability partnership is proved to have been committed with the
consent or connivance of, or to be attributable to any neglect on the
part of, a partner or manager of the limited liability partnership, the
partner or manager (as the case may be) as well as the partnership
shall be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly.

 (5) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                       Deposit Insurance and

                 Policy Owners’ Protection

99                     Schemes Act 2011                      2020 Ed.

    (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
         an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
         its governing body; or

    (b) to be attributable to any act or default on the part of such an
         officer or a member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(6) In this section —

    “body corporate” and “partnership” exclude a limited liability
       partnership within the meaning of the Limited Liability
       Partnerships Act 2005;

    “officer” —

    (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
         member of the committee of management, chief
         executive officer, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the body corporate and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity; and

    (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
         than a partnership), means the president, the
         secretary, or any member of the committee of the
         unincorporated association, or any person holding a
         position analogous to that of president, secretary or
         member of such a committee and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity;

    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (7) The Minister may make regulations to provide for the
application of any provision of this section, with such
modifications as the Minister considers appropriate, to any body
corporate, limited liability partnership or unincorporated association
formed or recognised under the law of a territory outside Singapore.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         100

False statements regarding membership, insured deposits and
insured policies

 67.—(1) No person may, knowingly or recklessly, make a false or
misleading statement as to whether or not —

(a) any person is a DI Scheme member;

(b) any person is a PPF Scheme member;

          (c) any deposit or product is an insured deposit; or

(d) any policy is an insured policy.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall, even though a
contract does not come into being, be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $125,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding
$12,500 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

Offence by officer

 68.—(1) Any officer of a full bank, finance company or relevant
insurer who fails to take all reasonable steps to secure —

       (a) compliance by the full bank, finance company or relevant
            insurer (as the case may be) with any provision of this Act;
            or

       (b) the accuracy and correctness of any statement submitted to
            the Authority, the Agency or such other person as may be
            required under this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both.

 (2) In any proceedings against a person under subsection (1), it is a
defence for the person to prove that he or she had reasonable grounds
for believing that another person was charged with the duty of
securing compliance with the requirements of this Act, or with the
duty of ensuring that those statements were accurate and correct (as

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
     Deposit Insurance and

     Policy Owners’ Protection

101  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

the case may be) and that that person was competent, and in a
position, to discharge that duty.

 (3) A person shall not be sentenced to imprisonment for any offence
under subsection (1) unless, in the opinion of the court, he or she
committed the offence wilfully.

 (4) Despite subsection (1), no officer shall be guilty of an offence
where the contravention of any provision of this Act by a full bank,
finance company or relevant insurer results in the imposition of only a
financial penalty on the full bank, finance company or relevant
insurer.

Duty not to provide false information to Authority or Agency

 69.—(1) Any person who provides the Authority or the Agency
with any information under or for the purposes of any provision of
this Act must use due care to ensure that the information is not false or
misleading in any material particular.

 (2) Subsection (1) applies only to a requirement in relation to which
no other provision of this Act creates an offence in connection with
the provision of information that is false or misleading in a material
particular.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both.

General penalty

 70. Any person who is guilty of an offence under this Act for which
no penalty is expressly provided shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

Penalty for corporation

 71.—(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), where a corporation or
body corporate is convicted of an offence under this Act, the penalty

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         102

that the court may impose is a fine not exceeding 2 times the
maximum amount that the court could, but for this subsection, impose
as a fine for that offence.

(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to —

(a) offences under sections 6(8) and 32(8); and

(b) offences under the subsidiary legislation made under this
     Act where it is expressly provided in the subsidiary
     legislation that subsection (1) does not apply to those
     offences.

 (3) Where an individual is convicted of an offence under this Act by
virtue of section 66, the individual shall be liable to the fine or
imprisonment or both as prescribed for that offence and
subsection (1) does not apply.

Jurisdiction of court

 72. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment in
respect of the offence.

Composition of offences

 73.—(1) The Authority may compound any offence under this Act
that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
of money not exceeding one half of the amount of the maximum fine
that is prescribed for the offence.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings may
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) The Authority may make regulations to prescribe the offences
which may be compounded.

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
     Deposit Insurance and

     Policy Owners’ Protection

103  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

     PART 12

     FINANCIAL AND AUDIT PROVISIONS

Financial provisions with respect to DI Fund, PPF Life Fund
and PPF General Fund

 74. The financial provisions set out in the Sixth Schedule have
effect with respect to all moneys in the DI Fund, the PPF Life Fund
and the PPF General Fund, respectively.

Financial provisions with respect to Agency

 75. The financial provisions set out in the Seventh Schedule have
effect with respect to the Agency.

Annual report of Agency

 76. The Agency must, as soon as practicable after the end of each
financial year, cause to be prepared and transmitted to the Minister a
report dealing generally with the activities of the Agency during the
preceding financial year and containing such information relating to
the proceedings and policy of the Agency as the Minister may, from
time to time, direct.

Three-year estimates of income and expenditure

 77.—(1) The Agency must before the start of every period of
3 consecutive financial years beginning 1 April 2019, prepare or
cause to be prepared estimates of income and expenditure of the
DI Fund, the PPF Life Fund, the PPF General Fund and the Agency
for the 3 ensuing financial years.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (2) The Agency must also prepare or cause to be prepared a
supplementary estimate for any financial year where the estimates
prepared under subsection (1) are insufficient.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (3) All estimates mentioned in subsections (1) and (2) must be
presented to the Minister for his or her approval.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                       Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.               Schemes Act 2011                            104

Reporting to Minister

 78. If the auditor in the course of the performance of his or her
duties as an auditor of the Agency or the DI Fund, PPF Life Fund or
PPF General Fund is satisfied that —

(a) there has been a serious contravention of any provisions of
     this Act or the Companies Act 1967 or that an offence
     involving fraud or dishonesty has been committed; or

(b) serious irregularities have occurred, including
     irregularities that jeopardise the interests of insured
     depositors or insured policy owners,

the auditor must immediately report the matter in writing to the
Minister.

                                   PART 13
                             MISCELLANEOUS
Protection from liability
 79. No liability shall be incurred by —
       (a) the Agency;
       (b) any director, officer, employee or agent of the Agency; or
       (c) any person acting under the direction of the Agency,
as a result of anything done (including any statement made) or
omitted to be done in good faith in —
       (d) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
            Act;
       (e) the performance or purported performance of any function
            or duty under this Act; or
        (f) the execution or purported execution of this Act.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
     Deposit Insurance and

     Policy Owners’ Protection

105  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

Indemnity for Agency’s officers against cost of action to which
section 79 applies

 79A.—(1) The Agency must indemnify a person mentioned in
subsection (2) against all costs and expenses reasonably incurred by
the person in connection with any action, suit or other legal
proceedings to which the person is a party by reason of anything
done (including any statement made) or omitted to be done in good
faith in the course of or in connection with any of the matters
mentioned in section 79(d), (e) or (f).

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (2) Subsection (1) applies to a person who was a person mentioned
in section 79(b) or (c) at the time of the alleged act or omission giving
rise to the action, suit or proceeding.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

Preservation of confidentiality

 80.—(1) No person who is or has been a member, a director, an
officer, an employee or an agent of the Agency may disclose any
information relating to the affairs of the Agency or of any other
person which has been obtained by the firstmentioned person in the
performance of his or her duties or the exercise of his or her functions
unless such disclosure is made —

       (a) with the permission of the person from whom the
            information was obtained or, where the information is
            the confidential information of a third person, with the
            permission of that third person;

       (b) for the purpose of the performance of his or her duties or
            the exercise of his or her functions under this Act;

       (c) in compliance with the requirement of any court or any
            written law; or

       (d) for the purpose of assisting any public officer or officer of
            any other statutory board in the investigation or
            prosecution of any offence under any written law.

 (2) No person who is or has been a member, a director, an officer, an
employee or an agent of the Agency may, for his or her own personal
benefit or for the personal benefit of any other person, make use of

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         106

any information, whether directly or indirectly, which has been
obtained by the firstmentioned person in the performance of his or her
duties or the exercise of his or her functions.

 (3) For the purpose of this section, the reference to a person
disclosing or making use of any information includes his or her
permitting any other person to have any access to any record,
document or other thing which is in the firstmentioned person’s
possession or under the firstmentioned person’s control by virtue of
his or her being or having been a member, a director, an officer, an
employee or an agent of the Agency.

 (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both.

General exemption

 81.—(1) The Minister may, by regulations, exempt any person or
class of persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act, subject
to such terms or conditions as may be prescribed.

 (2) The Minister may, on application of any person, by written
notice exempt the person from all or any of the provisions of this Act
if the Minister considers it appropriate to do so in the circumstances
of the case.

 (3) An exemption under subsection (2) —

       (a) may be granted subject to such terms or conditions as the
            Minister may specify by written notice;

       (b) need not be published in the Gazette; and

       (c) may be withdrawn at any time by the Minister if he or she
            considers it necessary in the public interest.

 (4) Any person who contravenes any term or condition prescribed
under subsection (1) or specified by the Minister under
subsection (3)(a) shall be guilty of an offence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
     Deposit Insurance and

     Policy Owners’ Protection

107  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

Appointment of assistants

 82.—(1) The Authority may, subject to such conditions or
restrictions as it thinks fit, appoint any person to exercise any of its
powers or perform any of its functions or duties under this Act, either
generally or in any particular case, except the power to make
subsidiary legislation.

 (2) The Authority may appoint one or more of its officers to
exercise a power conferred on the Authority to grant an exemption to
any person (not being an exemption granted to a class of persons)
under this Act, or to revoke any such exemption.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (2A) An appointment under subsection (2) must be published in the
Gazette.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (3) Any person appointed by the Authority under subsection (1) or
(2) is deemed to be a public servant for the purposes of the Penal
Code 1871.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

Inspection of books of DI Scheme members and PPF Scheme
members

 83.—(1) The Authority may from time to time inspect, under
conditions of secrecy, the books of any DI Scheme member or
PPF Scheme member for the purposes of this Act.

 (2) For the purposes of an inspection under this section —

       (a) the DI Scheme member or PPF Scheme member and any
            other person who is in possession of the books of the
            DI Scheme member or PPF Scheme member must produce
            such books to the Authority and give such information or
            facilities as may be required by the Authority;

       (b) the DI Scheme member or PPF Scheme member must
            procure that any other person who is in possession of its
            books produce its books to the Authority and give such
            information or facilities as may be required by the
            Authority; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         108

          (c) the Authority may —

          (i) make copies of, or take possession of, any of such
              books;

          (ii) use, or permit the use of, any of such books for the
               purposes of any proceedings under this Act; and

          (iii) retain possession of any of such books for so long as
                is necessary —

          (A) for the purposes of exercising a power
               conferred by this section;

          (B) for a decision to be made on whether or not
               proceedings should be commenced under this
               Act in relation to such books; or

          (C) for such proceedings to be commenced and
               carried on.

 (3) No person is entitled, as against the Authority, to claim a lien on
any of the books, but such a lien is not otherwise affected.

 (4) The Authority may require a person who produced any book to
the Authority to explain, to the best of the person’s knowledge and
belief, any matter about the compilation of the book or to which the
book relates.

 (5) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (2) or a requirement of the Authority under
subsection (4) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing
offence, to a further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every day or part
of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

Provision of information and production of books
 84.—(1) The Authority may, by written notice, require a

DI Scheme member or PPF Scheme member to —
       (a) provide such information; or
       (b) produce any book,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
     Deposit Insurance and

     Policy Owners’ Protection

109  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

at such time and in such manner as the Authority may reasonably
require for the proper discharge of its functions.

 (2) Any information received from a DI Scheme member or
PPF Scheme member under this section must be treated as secret by
the Authority.

 (3) Nothing in subsection (2) precludes the Authority from
disclosing the information if —

     (a) the information is already in the public domain;

     (b) the information is disclosed in such a manner that the
          identity of an individual DI Scheme member or
          PPF Scheme member cannot be ascertained;

     (c) the DI Scheme member or PPF Scheme member consents
         to the disclosure;

     (d) disclosure of the information on individual DI Scheme
          member or PPF Scheme member is necessary for the
          Authority’s performance of its functions or in the exercise
          of its powers; or

       (e) disclosure of the information is required or authorised by
            an order of a court in Singapore, or by or under any written
            law.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

 (4) Any DI Scheme member or PPF Scheme member which fails to
or neglects to provide any information or produce any book required
by the Authority under this section shall be guilty of an offence.

 (5) Any DI Scheme member or PPF Scheme member which in
purported compliance with subsection (1), without reasonable care,
provides any information or produces any book that is inaccurate,
false or misleading shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $125,000.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

Service of documents, etc.

 85.—(1) Any notice, order or document required or authorised by
this Act to be served on any person may be served —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         110

(a) by delivering it to the person or to some adult member or
     employee of his or her family or household at his or her last
     known place of residence;

(b) by leaving it at his or her usual or last known place of
     residence or business in an envelope addressed to the
     person;

          (c) by sending it by registered post addressed to the person at
              his or her usual or last known place of residence or
              business; or

(d) in the case of a body corporate, firm or body of persons —

          (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other similar
              officer of the body corporate, firm or body of persons
              at its registered office or principal place of business;
              or

          (ii) by sending it by registered post addressed to the body
               corporate, firm or body of persons at its registered
               office or principal place of business.

 (2) Any notice, order or document sent by registered post to any
person in accordance with subsection (1) is deemed to be duly served
on the person at the time when the notice, order or document (as the
case may be) would in the ordinary course of post be delivered.

 (3) When proving service of the notice, order or document referred
to in subsection (2), it is sufficient to prove that the envelope
containing the notice, order or document (as the case may be) was
properly addressed, stamped and posted by registered post.

Electronic service

 86.—(1) The Authority may provide an electronic service for the
service of any notice that is required or authorised by this Act to be
served on any person.

 (2) The Authority may use the electronic service to serve any notice
on behalf of the Agency.

 (3) For the purposes of the electronic service, the Authority may
assign to any person —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
     Deposit Insurance and

     Policy Owners’ Protection

111                   Schemes Act 2011                        2020 Ed.

     (a) an authentication code; and

     (b) an account with the electronic service.

 (4) Despite section 85, where any person has given his or her
consent for any notice to be served on him or her through the
electronic service, the Authority may serve the notice on that person
by transmitting an electronic record of the notice to that person’s
account with the electronic service.

 (5) Where a person has given his or her consent for a notice to be
served on him or her through the electronic service, the notice is
deemed to have been served at the time when an electronic record of
the notice enters his or her account with the electronic service.

 (6) Despite any other written law, in any proceedings under this
Act —

     (a) an electronic record of any notice that was served through
          the electronic service; or

     (b) any copy or print-out of that electronic record,

is admissible as evidence of the facts stated or contained therein if
that electronic record, copy or print-out —

     (c) is certified by the Authority to contain all or any
         information served through the electronic service in
         accordance with this section; and

     (d) is duly authenticated in the manner specified in
          subsection (8) or is otherwise authenticated in the
          manner provided in the Evidence Act 1893 for the
          authentication of computer output.

(7) To avoid doubt —

     (a) an electronic record of any notice that was served through
          the electronic service; or

     (b) any copy or print-out of that electronic record,

is not inadmissible in evidence merely because the notice was served
without the delivery of any equivalent document or counterpart in
paper form.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         112

(8) For the purposes of this section, a certificate —

(a) giving the particulars of —

          (i) any person whose authentication code was used to
              serve the notice; and

          (ii) any person or device involved in the production or
               transmission of the electronic record of the notice, or
               the copy or print-out thereof;

(b) identifying the nature of the electronic record or copy or
     print-out thereof; and

          (c) purporting to be signed by the Authority or by a person
              occupying a responsible position in relation to the
              operation of the electronic service at the relevant time,

is sufficient evidence that the electronic record, copy or print-out has
been duly authenticated, unless the court, in its discretion, calls for
further evidence on this issue.

 (9) Where the electronic record of any notice, or a copy or print-out
of that electronic record, is admissible under subsection (6), it is
presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the electronic record,
copy or print-out accurately reproduces the contents of that
document.

 (10) The Authority may make regulations which are necessary or
expedient for carrying out the purposes of this section, including
regulations prescribing the procedure for the use of the electronic
service, including the procedure in circumstances where there is a
breakdown or interruption of the electronic service.

Copies or extracts of books to be admitted in evidence

 87.—(1) Subject to this section, a copy of or an extract from a book
mentioned in this Act that is proved to be a true copy of the book or of
the relevant part of the book is admissible in evidence as if it were the
original book or the relevant part of the original book.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), evidence that a copy of or an
extract from a book is a true copy of the book or of a part of the book
may be given by a person who has compared the copy or extract with

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
     Deposit Insurance and

     Policy Owners’ Protection

113  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

the book or the relevant part of the book and may be given orally or by
an affidavit sworn, or by a declaration made, before a person
authorised to take affidavits or statutory declarations.

Application of Companies Act 1967

 88. Nothing in this Act, with the exception of sections 58, 59, 60, 62
and 79, affects the operation of the Companies Act 1967 in relation to
its application to a company that is designated as the deposit
insurance and policy owners’ protection fund agency under
section 56.

Insurance Act 1966 not to apply in relation to certain parts

 89. The provisions of the Insurance Act 1966 (except where
expressly mentioned) do not apply to the Agency and anything done
by it under this Act.

Amendment of Schedules

 90.—(1) The Minister may at any time, by order in the Gazette,
amend any Schedule except the Fifth, Sixth and Seventh Schedules.

 (2) The Minister may, in any order made under subsection (1),
make such incidental, consequential or supplementary provisions as
may be necessary or expedient.

 (3) Any order made under subsection (1) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Regulations

 91.—(1) The Minister may, with the exception of those matters
which may be prescribed by the Authority under this Act, make
regulations for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this Act
and for the due administration thereof.

 (2) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, regulations
made under this Act may —

       (a) be of general or specific application; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         114

(b) provide that a contravention thereof shall be punishable —

          (i) in the case of an individual, with a fine not exceeding
              $12,500 or with imprisonment for a term not
              exceeding 12 months or both and, in the case of a
              continuing offence, with a further fine not exceeding
              $1,250 for every day or part of a day during which
              the offence continues after conviction; or

          (ii) in the case of a company or body corporate, with a
               fine not exceeding $25,000 and, in the case of a
               continuing offence, with a further fine not exceeding
               $2,500 for every day or part of a day during which
               the offence continues after conviction.

Saving and transitional provisions

 92.—(1) Any exemption granted by the Authority under
section 6(2) of the repealed Act immediately before 1 May 2011
continues and is deemed to have been granted under section 6(2) of
this Act, and any condition to which the exemption was subject
immediately before that date continues and is deemed to have been
imposed under section 6(5) of this Act.

 (2) Any assets, investments or moneys which were part of the
DI Fund established under section 9(1) of the repealed Act (whether
held in the name of the DI Fund or otherwise) immediately before
1 May 2011, are deemed to be assets, investments and moneys
forming part of the DI Fund reconstituted under section 9(1) of this
Act.

 (3) Any approval granted by the Minister under section 11 of the
repealed Act in respect of the types of investments that the Agency
may invest any money in the DI Fund, continues and is deemed to
have been granted by the Minister under section 11 of this Act.

 (4) Any director holding office at the company designated by the
Minister under section 12 of the repealed Act to be the deposit
insurance agency immediately before 1 May 2011, continues to hold
appointment as such at the company designated by the Minister under
section 56 of this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
     Deposit Insurance and

     Policy Owners’ Protection

115  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

 (5) The following provisions apply to the Chief Executive, other
officers, employees, consultants and agents appointed as such by the
company designated by the Minister under section 12 of the repealed
Act to be the deposit insurance agency, pursuant to section 18 of that
Act immediately before 1 May 2011:

     (a) the Chief Executive, other officers, employees, consultants
          and agents continue to hold such appointments and are
          deemed to have been appointed as such under section 62 of
          this Act;

     (b) the terms and conditions to which their appointments were
          subject to immediately before 1 May 2011 continue and are
          deemed to have been imposed under or pursuant to this
          Act.

 (6) Subject to subsection (8), every DI Scheme member which has
received a notice to pay a premium contribution under section 23 of
the repealed Act for the premium year beginning on 1 April 2011 and
ending on 31 March 2012, may from 1 May 2011 be required to pay a
further premium contribution under this Act in respect of the period
commencing on 1 May 2011 until 31 March 2012 (both days
inclusive).

 (7) Sections 12, 14, 16, 17 and 18 of this Act apply, with the
necessary modifications, to any payment of further premium
contribution.

 (8) Despite subsection (7), the Authority must, when computing the
amount of further premium contribution payable by a DI Scheme
member, take into consideration any premium contribution which
that DI Scheme member has paid under the repealed Act for the
premium year beginning on 1 April 2011 and ending on 31 March
2012.

 (9) Section 19 of this Act applies, with the necessary modifications,
to any premium contribution which a DI Scheme member has
received a notice to pay under section 23 of the repealed Act for the
premium year beginning on 1 April 2011 and ending on 31 March
2012.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         116

 (10) Any act or purported act of the Agency (including the entering
into of an agreement by the Agency and any act done on behalf of the
Agency by an officer or agent of the Agency under any purported
authority, whether express or implied, of the Agency) in respect of the
PPF Scheme after 1 May 2011 but before the memorandum and
articles of association of the Agency have been amended is not
invalid by reason only of the fact that the Agency was without
capacity or power to do such act.

 (11) To avoid doubt, section 25(2) and (3) of the Companies
Act 1967 does not apply to any act or purported act of the Agency
referred to in subsection (10).

 (12) In this section, a reference to a provision of the repealed Act is
a reference to that provision of that Act in force immediately before
1 May 2011.

                          FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                       Sections 2(1) and 90(1)

         INSURED DEPOSIT AND MAXIMUM DI COVERAGE

In this Act —

  “insured deposit” means —

             (a) any of the following deposits in Singapore dollars, placed with
                  any DI Scheme member in any of its branches in Singapore:

                        (i) a deposit in a savings account;

                       (ii) a deposit in a fixed deposit account;

                       (iii) a deposit in a current account,

             (a) including any accrued interest that has been credited to the
                  relevant accounts for each of the deposits specified in
                  sub‑paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii), regardless of whether such a
                  deposit is pledged, charged or secured as collateral or whether
                  such a deposit or part thereof is set aside in respect of any debt
                  owing to the DI Scheme member and cannot be withdrawn until
                  and unless the debt is repaid;

             (b) any moneys denominated in Singapore dollars placed with any
                  DI Scheme member under the CPFIS, CPFRS or the
                  Supplementary Retirement Scheme; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
     Deposit Insurance and

     Policy Owners’ Protection

117  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

     FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

     (c) such product as may be prescribed by the Authority,

     but does not include any structured deposit as defined in the Financial
     Advisers (Structured Deposits — Prescribed Investment Product and
     Exemption) Regulations;

     “Maximum DI Coverage” means the amount of $100,000.

                                                                                             [26/2016; 31/2018]
                                                                                 [S 706/2023 wef 01/04/2024]

                        SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                             Sections 38(6), 47(2) and 90(1)

                    CATEGORIES OF INSURED POLICIES

Insured policies must be classified into one of the following 4 categories:

     (a) Category 1 insured policies, comprising any of the following types of
          policies or riders:

               (i) any individual accident and health policy;

              (ii) any group health policy;

             (iii) any group personal accident policy;

             (iv) any rider to an individual policy, whether or not it is a
                   Category 1 insured policy, with the exception of a rider which,
                   upon the occurrence of a claim event —

                    (A) accelerates the payment of part or all of the sum assured
                          stated in the policy; or

                    (B) provides for a payout of an additional sum of money over
                          and above the sum assured stated in the policy;

              (v) the part of any insured policy, whether or not it is a Category 1
                   insured policy —

                    (A) comprising the accumulated values (including interest
                          which has accrued on such values) of coupon deposits,
                          advance premium payments and unclaimed moneys
                          under such insured policy; and

                    (B) excluding such coupon deposits, advance premium
                          payments and unclaimed moneys as have been
                          factored, in whole or in part, in the surrender value
                          computation by the PPF Scheme member;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         118

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

          (vi) any accident and health benefit payable under a Category 4
               insured policy (other than a benefit that accelerates the
               payment of part or all of the sum assured stated in the policy);

(b) Category 2 insured policies, comprising any of the following types of
     policies or riders:

          (i) any individual policy (other than a Category 1 or 3 insured
              policy);

          (ii) any voluntary group term policy;

          (iii) any voluntary group whole life policy;

          (iv) any voluntary group endowment policy;

          (v) any rider, whether or not it is a Category 2 insured policy,
               which accelerates the payment of all or part of the sum assured
               stated in the policy or provides for a payout of an additional
               sum of money over and above the sum assured stated in the
               policy upon occurrence of a claim event,

(b) except that any accident and health benefit (other than those benefits
     that accelerate the payment of part or all of the sum assured stated in
     the policy) payable under any such policy, must be classified as a
     Category 1 insured policy;

(c) Category 3 insured policies, comprising any annuity where the insured
    policy owner is an individual and any voluntary group annuity policy;

(d) Category 4 insured policies, comprising any of the following types of
     policies or riders:

          (i) any non-voluntary group insurance policy, being a
              non‑voluntary group term policy, non‑voluntary group whole
              life policy, non‑voluntary group endowment policy or
              non‑voluntary group annuity policy;

          (ii) any rider of a non-voluntary group insurance policy which,
               upon the occurrence of a claim event —

          (A) accelerates the payment of part or all of the sum assured
               stated in the policy; or

          (B) provides for a payout of an additional sum of money over
               and above the sum assured stated in the policy,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
     Deposit Insurance and

     Policy Owners’ Protection

119  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

     (d) other than any accident and health benefit, not being a benefit under a
          rider that accelerates the payment of part or all of the sum assured
          stated in the policy, payable under any such policy.

                                                                                                      [31/2018]

                            THIRD SCHEDULE

                                                                                  Sections 2(1), 54(8), 90(1) and
                                                                                                    Fourth Schedule

                               PROTECTED LIABILITIES

 1. For the purposes of computing the levies payable by PPF Scheme members
under section 38, the aggregate amount of the protected liabilities of a
PPF Scheme member in respect of its insured policies covered under the
PPF Life Fund is the aggregate of all the following amounts:

        (a) in the case of Category 1 insured policies, an amount equivalent to the
             product of the protection ratio referred to in paragraph 2(a) of the
             Fourth Schedule and the guaranteed policy liabilities for each of such
             policies;

        (b) in the case of Category 2 insured policies, an amount calculated in
             accordance with the following formula:

     ðA  þ  BÞ
                   �  C;

          2

.    where A is the protection ratio for sum assured referred to in

     paragraph 2(b) of the Fourth Schedule;

     B is the protection ratio for surrender value referred to in
        paragraph 2(c) of the Fourth Schedule; and

     C is the guaranteed policy liabilities for each of such
        Category 2 insured policies;

     (c) in the case of Category 3 insured policies, an amount equivalent to the
          product of the protection ratio referred to in paragraph 2(d) of the
          Fourth Schedule and the guaranteed policy liabilities for each of such
          policies;

     (d) in the case of Category 4 insured policies —

              (i) where the insured policies are group term policies, group
                   endowment policies or group whole life policies, an amount
                   calculated in accordance with the following formula:

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         120
.
          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

          ðD  þ  EÞ
                        �  F;

               2

          where D is the protection ratio for sum assured referred to
                      in paragraph 2(e)(i) of the Fourth Schedule;

                   E is the protection ratio for surrender value referred
                      to in paragraph 2(e)(ii) of the Fourth Schedule;
                      and

                   F is the guaranteed policy liabilities for each of such
                      group term policies, group endowment policies or
                      group whole life policies; and

                 (ii) where the insured policies are group annuity policies, an
                      amount equivalent to the product of the protection ratio for
                      commuted value referred to in paragraph 2(e)(iii) of the
                      Fourth Schedule and the guaranteed policy liabilities for each
                      of such policies.

 2. For the purposes of computing the compensation to be paid out to an insured
policy owner from the PPF General Fund under section 48A, the aggregate
amount of the protected liabilities in respect of the insured policy owner’s insured
policy issued by a failed PPF Scheme member is calculated in the following
manner:

        (a) in the case of a compulsory insurance policy, the full amount of any
             liability of the failed PPF Scheme member under the insured policy, in
             respect of a sum payable to any person entitled to the benefit under the
             terms of any compulsory insurance policy, which arises from a liability
             of the policy owner that is subject to compulsory insurance, including
             the full amount of any such liability which becomes payable before, or
             within 30 days after, the quantification date;

        (b) in all other cases, the full amount of any liability of the failed
             PPF Scheme member to the insured policy owner under the terms of
             the insured policy, including the full amount of any such liability
             which becomes payable before, or within 30 days after, the
             quantification date.

 3. For the purposes of determining the amount of benefits that an insured policy
owner is entitled to receive from the PPF General Fund in the event of a claim
under the insured policy owner’s insured policy, which occurs after the transfer or
during the run‑off of the insurance business of the failed PPF Scheme member

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
     Deposit Insurance and

     Policy Owners’ Protection

121  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

     THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

under section 54, the protected liabilities in respect of the insured policy owner’s
insured policy are —

     (a) in the case of a compulsory insurance policy, the full amount of any
          liability of the failed PPF Scheme member under the insured policy for
          a sum payable to any person entitled to the benefit under the terms of
          the compulsory insurance policy for a liability of the policy owner that
          is subject to compulsory insurance, including the full amount of any
          such liability of the failed PPF Scheme member which becomes
          payable before, or within 30 days after, the quantification date; and

     (b) in all other cases, the full amount of any liability of the failed
          PPF Scheme member to the insured policy owner under the terms of
          the insured policy, including the full amount of any such liability of the
          failed PPF Scheme member which becomes payable before, or within
          30 days after, the quantification date.

 4. For the purposes of determining the amount of benefits that an insured policy
owner is entitled to receive from the PPF General Fund in the event of termination
of an insured policy issued by the failed PPF Scheme member under section 54,
the protected liabilities in respect of the insured policy are —

     (a) in the case of a compulsory insurance policy, the full amount of any
          liability of the failed PPF Scheme member under the insured policy
          before the termination, in respect of a sum payable to any person
          entitled to the benefit under the terms of the compulsory insurance
          policy for a liability of the policy owner that is subject to compulsory
          insurance before the termination of the policy; and

     (b) in all other cases, the full amount of any liability of the failed
          PPF Scheme member to the insured policy owner under the terms of
          the insured policy applicable before the termination.

 5. For the purposes of determining the amount of benefits that an insured policy
owner is entitled to receive from the PPF Life Fund in the event of a claim under
the insured policy owner’s insured policy, which occurs after the transfer or during
the run-off of the insurance business of the failed PPF Scheme member under
section 54, the protected liabilities in respect of the insured policy owner’s insured
policy are computed in the following manner:

     (a) in the case of a Category 1 insured policy, the product of the protection
          ratio referred to in paragraph 2(a) of the Fourth Schedule and the
          guaranteed policy liabilities for the policy;

     (b) in the case of a Category 2 insured policy, an amount calculated in
          accordance with the following formula:

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         122

          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

          AþB
                    � C;

              2

.         where A is the protection ratio for the sum assured mentioned in

          paragraph 2(b) of the Fourth Schedule;

          B is the protection ratio for the surrender value mentioned in
             paragraph 2(c) of the Fourth Schedule; and

          C is the guaranteed policy liabilities for each of such
             Category 2 insured policies;

        (c) in the case of a Category 3 insured policy, the product of the protection
             ratio referred to in paragraph 2(d) of the Fourth Schedule and the
             guaranteed policy liabilities for the policy;

        (d) in the case of a Category 4 insured policy —

                  (i) where the policy is a group term policy, group endowment
                      policy or group whole life policy, the policy liabilities valued in
                      accordance with regulations prescribed pursuant to section 17
                      of the Insurance Act 1966 for the valuation of assets and
                      liabilities in an insurance fund using —

                       (A) the adjusted sum assured which is the product of the
                             protection ratio for sum assured referred to in
                             paragraph 2(e)(i) of the Fourth Schedule and the sum
                             assured guaranteed under the policy; and

                        (B) the adjusted surrender value which is the product of the
                             protection ratio for surrender value referred to in
                             paragraph 2(e)(ii) of the Fourth Schedule and the
                             surrender value guaranteed under the policy; and

                 (ii) where the policy is a group annuity policy, the product of the
                      protection ratio for commuted value referred to in
                      paragraph 2(e)(iii) of the Fourth Schedule and the guaranteed
                      policy liabilities for the policy.

 6. For the purposes of determining the amount of benefits that an insured policy
owner is entitled to receive from the PPF Life Fund in the event of termination of
insured policies issued by the failed PPF Scheme member under section 54, the
protected liabilities in respect of the insured policy owner’s insured policy are —

        (a) in the case of a Category 1 insured policy, the product of the protection
             ratio mentioned in paragraph 2(a) of the Fourth Schedule and the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
     Deposit Insurance and

     Policy Owners’ Protection

123  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

     THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

     guaranteed policy liabilities for the policy applicable before the
     termination;

     (b) in the case of a Category 2 insured policy, the policy liabilities valued
          in accordance with regulations prescribed under section 17 of the
          Insurance Act 1966 for the valuation of assets and liabilities in an
          insurance fund before the termination of the policy using —

     (i) the adjusted guaranteed sum assured, which is the product of
         the protection ratio for the sum assured mentioned in
         paragraph 2(b) of the Fourth Schedule and the sum assured
         guaranteed under the policy applicable before the termination;
         and

     (ii) the adjusted surrender value, which is the product of —

     (A) the protection ratio for the surrender value mentioned in
          paragraph 2(c) of the Fourth Schedule; and

     (B) the surrender value guaranteed under the policy
          applicable before the termination, or if there is no such
          surrender value, the commuted value of the amount of
          guaranteed benefit payments under the policy if it had
          been in force at the time of the commuting;

     (c) in the case of a Category 3 insured policy, the product of the protection
         ratio mentioned in paragraph 2(d) of the Fourth Schedule and the
         guaranteed policy liabilities for the policy applicable before the
         termination; and

     (d) in the case of a Category 4 insured policy —

     (i) where the policy is a group term policy, group endowment
         policy or group whole life policy, the policy liabilities valued in
         accordance with regulations prescribed under section 17 of the
         Insurance Act 1966 for the valuation of assets and liabilities in
         an insurance fund before the termination of the policy using —

     (A) the adjusted sum assured, which is the product of the
          protection ratio for the sum assured mentioned in
          paragraph 2(e)(i) of the Fourth Schedule and the sum
          assured guaranteed under the policy applicable before the
          termination; and

     (B) the adjusted surrender value, which is the product of the
          protection ratio for the surrender value mentioned in
          paragraph 2(e)(ii) of the Fourth Schedule and the
          surrender value guaranteed under the policy applicable

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         124

          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

                      before the termination, or if not available, the commuted
                      value of the amount of guaranteed benefit payments
                      under the policy if it had been in force at the time of the
                      commuting; and

          (ii) where the policy is a group annuity policy, the product of the
               protection ratio for the commuted value mentioned in
               paragraph 2(e)(iii) of the Fourth Schedule and the guaranteed
               policy liabilities for the policy applicable before the
               termination.

                                                                                                [31/2018]

                           FOURTH SCHEDULE

                                                                                  Sections 2(1), 47(2), 90(1) and
                                                                                                     Third Schedule

                                  PROTECTION RATIO

 1. In this Schedule —

      “Maximum Annuity Sum” means the amount of $100,000;

      “Maximum Group Sum Assured” means the amount of $100,000;

      “Maximum Group Surrender Value” means the amount of $50,000;

      “Maximum Sum Assured” means the amount of $500,000;

      “Maximum Surrender Value” means the amount of $100,000.

 2. For the purposes of section 47 and the Third Schedule, the protection ratio is
determined in the following manner:

        (a) in the case of Category 1 insured policies, 1;

        (b) for the sum assured for Category 2 insured policies, in respect of each
             life assured —

                  (i) the ratio of the Maximum Sum Assured to the aggregate
                      amount or (where instalment payments have, before the
                      quantification date, been made to a covered party) the
                      aggregate remaining amount, of the sum assured on the life
                      assured guaranteed under all such policies (other than riders
                      which accelerate the payment of part or all of the sum assured
                      stated in the policy), upon the occurrence of a claim event
                      (including the sum assured on any rider which provides
                      additional payout of the sum assured upon the occurrence of a
                      claim event); or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
              Deposit Insurance and

              Policy Owners’ Protection

125           Schemes Act 2011                                2020 Ed.

              FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

     (ii) 1,

     (b) whichever is lower;

     (c) for the surrender value for Category 2 insured policies, in respect of
         each life assured —

     (i) the ratio of the Maximum Surrender Value to the aggregate
         amount of the surrender value guaranteed (in the event that the
         insured policy owner or trustee of a trust of the insured policy
         has given written notice to the failed PPF Scheme member to
         surrender the policy) under all such policies; or

     (ii) 1,

     (c) whichever is lower;

     (d) in the case of Category 3 insured policies, in respect of each life
          assured —

     (i) the ratio of the Maximum Annuity Sum to the aggregate
         amount of commuted value of benefits guaranteed under all
         such policies; or

     (ii) 1,

     (d) whichever is lower;

     (e) in the case of Category 4 insured policies, in respect of each life
         assured per policy —

     (i) for the sum assured under a group policy —

     (A) the ratio of the Maximum Group Sum Assured to the
          amount of sum assured guaranteed under each group
          term, endowment policy or whole life policy, as the case
          may be; or

     (B) 1,

     (i) whichever is lower;

     (ii) for the surrender value under a group policy —

     (A) the ratio of the Maximum Group Surrender Value to the
          amount of surrender value guaranteed for each group
          endowment or whole life policy, as the case may be; or

     (B) 1,

     (ii) whichever is lower;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         126

          FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

          (iii) for the commuted value of group annuity —

          (A) the ratio of the Maximum Annuity Sum to the amount of
               commuted value of guaranteed benefits for each group
               annuity policy; or

                 (B) 1,
          (iii) whichever is lower.

                                                                   [31/2018]

                             FIFTH SCHEDULE

                                                                                         Sections 27(8) and 52(8)

             PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THE HOLDING AND
                     PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION BY THE

                PUBLIC TRUSTEE TO PERSONS ENTITLED TO
              PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION UNDER THIS ACT

 1. The Public Trustee must hold the payment of compensation made to the
Public Trustee under sections 27 and 52 (called in this Schedule compensation
moneys) as a bare trustee until such compensation moneys are paid out to the
insured depositors, persons referred to in section 22(7), insured policy owners, or
beneficiaries under insured policies which are covered under the PPF General
Fund and provide third party benefits (as the case may be) (called in this Schedule
the entitled persons) or the Consolidated Fund.

 2. The Public Trustee is not under a duty to do any of the following:

        (a) take any step to trace or contact any entitled person for the purpose of
             making payment of the compensation moneys to the person;

        (b) despite section 10(3) of the Public Trustee Act 1915 and rule 22 of the
             Public Trustee Rules, invest any compensation moneys for the benefit
             of any entitled person;

        (c) despite section 21 of the Public Trustee Act 1915 and rule 22 of the
             Public Trustee Rules, pay any interest on any compensation moneys to
             any entitled person.

 3. The Public Trustee may hold the compensation moneys up to a maximum
period of 7 years from the date of receipt of such compensation moneys and if they
remain unclaimed at the expiry of that period, the compensation moneys together
with any interest earned thereon must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

 4. If any claim is made by any entitled person to any part of the compensation
moneys so transferred to the Consolidated Fund and if the claim is established to
the Public Trustee’s satisfaction, the amount certified by the Public Trustee to be

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
     Deposit Insurance and

     Policy Owners’ Protection

127  Schemes Act 2011                                         2020 Ed.

     FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

due to the claimant must be paid to the claimant, without interest, from the
Consolidated Fund.

 5. The Agency must, based on the books of the failed DI Scheme member or
PPF Scheme member (as the case may be) provide the particulars of each entitled
person and the amount of compensation moneys due to such person (called in this
Schedule the computed compensation amount) to the Public Trustee at the time of
payment of the compensation moneys to the Public Trustee.

 6. In the event that an entitled person makes a claim to any part of the
compensation moneys with the Public Trustee, the Public Trustee may make
payment of the computed compensation amount to the entitled person and in
making payment of such moneys to the entitled person, the Public Trustee is
entitled to rely on the particulars and computed compensation amount referred in
paragraph 5.

 7. Where the particulars of a claimant are not found in the particulars provided
by the Agency to the Public Trustee under paragraph 5, the Public Trustee must
refer the claimant to the Agency and the Agency must determine whether the
claimant is an entitled person. If the Agency determines that the claimant is an
entitled person, the Agency must provide a confirmation to the Public Trustee
stating the computed compensation amount due to the claimant, whereupon the
Public Trustee is entitled to rely on the confirmation and make payment of the
computed compensation amount to the claimant.

 8. Where an entitled person makes a claim for an amount of compensation
moneys with the Public Trustee which is greater than the computed compensation
amount, the Public Trustee may only pay the computed compensation amount to
the entitled person and refer the entitled person to the Agency to claim the shortfall
between the firstmentioned amount and the computed compensation amount.

 9. Where any compensation moneys is paid in error or excess by the Agency to
the Public Trustee, the Agency must notify the Public Trustee in writing of such
amount paid in error or excess and the following apply:

     (a) in the case where such amount paid in error or excess has not been paid
          out by the Public Trustee in accordance with this Schedule, the Public
          Trustee must refund the amount paid in error or excess to the Agency;

     (b) in the case where such amount paid in error or excess has been paid out
          by the Public Trustee to an entitled person in accordance with this
          Schedule, the Agency must recover the amount paid in error or excess
          from the entitled person under section 28 or 53, as the case may be.

 10. No liability shall be incurred by the Public Trustee as a result of anything
done (including any statement made) or omitted to be done with reasonable care

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         128

          FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

and in good faith in the performance or purported performance of any function or
duty referred to in this Act.

                                                                                                           [44/2014]

                            SIXTH SCHEDULE

                                                                                                           Section 74

                 FINANCIAL PROVISIONS WITH RESPECT TO
                               DI FUND, PPF LIFE FUND
                              AND PPF GENERAL FUND

Financial year
 1.—(1) The financial year of the DI Fund begins on 1 April of every year and
ends on 31 March of the following year.
 (2) The financial year of the PPF Life Fund and the PPF General Fund begins on
1 April of every year and ends on 31 March of the following year.

Accounts of DI Fund, PPF Life Fund and PPF General Fund
 2. The Agency must —

        (a) keep or cause to be kept proper accounts and records of the
             transactions and affairs in respect of the DI Fund, PPF Life Fund
             and PPF General Fund; and

        (b) after the close of each financial year prepare financial statements in
             respect of the DI Fund, PPF Life Fund and PPF General Fund for that
             year.

Auditor
 3. The accounts must be audited by such auditor as may be appointed annually
by the Agency.

Appointment of auditor
 4. A person is not qualified for appointment as an auditor under paragraph 3
unless he or she is a public accountant who is registered or deemed to be registered
under the Accountants Act 2004.

Annual financial statements
 5. The Agency must, as soon as practicable after the close of each financial year,
prepare and submit financial statements in respect of that year to the auditor.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                         Deposit Insurance and

     Policy Owners’ Protection

129                      Schemes Act 2011                     2020 Ed.

     SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued

Remuneration of auditor

 6. The remuneration of the auditor must be paid out of the DI Fund, PPF Life
Fund and PPF General Fund in such proportion as the Agency considers proper.

Duties of auditor

 7. The auditor must in the auditor’s report state —

        (a) whether the financial statements show fairly the financial transactions
             and the state of affairs of the DI Fund, PPF Life Fund and PPF General
             Fund, respectively;

        (b) whether proper accounting and other records have been kept, including
             records of all assets of the DI Fund, PPF Life Fund and PPF General
             Fund, respectively, whether purchased, donated or otherwise;

        (c) whether the receipts, expenditure and investment of moneys by the
             DI Fund, PPF Life Fund and PPF General Fund, respectively, during
             the financial year were in accordance with the provisions of this Act;
             and

        (d) such other matters arising from the audit as the auditor considers
             necessary.

Auditor’s report

 8.—(1) The auditor must, as soon as practicable after the accounts have been
submitted for audit, send a report of the auditor’s audit to the Agency.

 (2) The auditor must submit such periodical and special reports to the Minister
and to the Agency as may appear to the auditor to be necessary or as the Minister
or the Agency may require.

Powers of auditor

 9.—(1) The auditor or any person authorised by the auditor is entitled at all
reasonable times to full and free access to all accounting and other records
relating, directly or indirectly, to the financial transactions of the DI Fund,
PPF Life Fund and PPF General Fund, and may make copies of or extracts from
any such accounting and other records.

 (2) The auditor or any person authorised by the auditor may require any person
to provide the auditor or any person authorised by the auditor with such
information in the possession of that person or to which that person has access as
the auditor considers necessary for the purposes of the auditor’s functions under
this Act.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         130

          SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued

Penalty for obstructing auditor

 10. Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with any
requirement of the auditor under paragraph 9(2) or who otherwise hinders,
obstructs or delays the auditor in the performance of the auditor’s duties or the
exercise of the auditor’s powers shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $4,000.

Presentation of audited financial statements and auditor’s report

 11. The Agency must, as soon as the financial statements have been audited in
accordance with the provisions of this Act, submit a copy of the audited financial
statements, together with a copy of the auditor’s report, to the Minister.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

                          SEVENTH SCHEDULE

                                                                                                           Section 75

           FINANCIAL PROVISIONS WITH RESPECT TO AGENCY
Financial year
 1. The financial year of the Agency comprises such period as may be specified
in the constitution of the Agency.

Accounts of Agency
 2. The Agency must keep proper accounts and records of its transactions and
affairs and must do all things necessary to ensure that all payments out of its
moneys are properly authorised and correctly made and that adequate control is
maintained over the assets of, or in the custody of, the Agency and over the
expenditure incurred by the Agency.

Auditor
 3. The accounts of the Agency must be audited by such auditor as may be
appointed annually by the Agency.

Appointment of auditor
 4. A person is not qualified for appointment as an auditor under paragraph 3
unless he or she is a public accountant who is registered or deemed to be registered
under the Accountants Act 2004.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                         Deposit Insurance and

     Policy Owners’ Protection

131                      Schemes Act 2011                     2020 Ed.

     SEVENTH SCHEDULE — continued

Remuneration of auditor

 5. The remuneration of the auditor must be paid out of the DI Fund, PPF Life
Fund and PPF General Fund in such proportion as the Agency considers proper.

Annual financial statements

 6. The Agency must, as soon as practicable after the close of each financial year,
prepare and submit financial statements in respect of that year to the auditor of the
Agency.

Duties of auditor

 7. The auditor must in the auditor’s report state —

        (a) whether the financial statements show fairly the financial transactions
             and the state of affairs of the Agency;

        (b) whether proper accounting and other records have been kept, including
             records of all assets of the Agency, whether purchased, donated or
             otherwise;

        (c) whether the receipts, expenditure and investment of moneys and the
             acquisition and disposal of assets by the Agency during the financial
             year were in accordance with the provisions of this Act; and

        (d) such other matters arising from the audit as the auditor considers
             necessary.

Auditor’s report

 8.—(1) The auditor must, as soon as practicable after the accounts have been
submitted for audit, send a report of his or her audit to the Agency.

 (2) The auditor must submit such periodical and special reports to the Minister
and to the Agency as may appear to the auditor to be necessary or as the Minister
or the Agency may require.

Powers of auditor

 9.—(1) The auditor or any person authorised by the auditor is entitled at all
reasonable times to full and free access to all accounting and other records
relating, directly or indirectly, to the financial transactions of the Agency and may
make copies of or extracts from any such accounting and other records.

 (2) The auditor or any person authorised by the auditor may require any person
to provide him or her with such information in the possession of that person or to
which that person has access as the auditor considers necessary for the purposes of
the auditor’s functions under this Act.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Deposit Insurance and

          Policy Owners’ Protection

2020 Ed.  Schemes Act 2011                                         132

          SEVENTH SCHEDULE — continued

Penalty for obstructing auditor

 10. Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with any
requirement of the auditor under paragraph 9(2) or who otherwise hinders,
obstructs or delays the auditor in the performance of his or her duties or the
exercise of his or her powers shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $4,000.

Presentation of audited financial statements and auditor’s report

 11. The Agency must, as soon as the financial statements have been audited in
accordance with the provisions of this Act, submit a copy of the audited financial
statements, together with a copy of the auditor’s report, to the Minister.

                                                                                                           [31/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
      LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

   DEPOSIT INSURANCE AND
POLICY OWNERS’ PROTECTION

        SCHEMES ACT 2011

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 15 of 2011 — Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners’ Protection
                           Schemes Act 2011

Date of First Reading     : 10 March 2011
                                (Bill No. 10/2011 published on
                                10 March 2011)

Date of Second and Third  : 11 April 2011
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 May 2011

Note: The Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners’ Protection Schemes Act
        2011 repealed the Deposit Insurance Act (Chapter 77A, 2006 Revised
        Edition).

2. 2012 Revised Edition — Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners'
                                    Protection Schemes Act (Chapter 77B)

Date of operation         : 31 December 2012

3. Act 11 of 2013 — Insurance (Amendment) Act 2013

Date of First Reading     : 4 February 2013 (Bill No. 5/2013
                                published on 4 February 2013)

Date of Second and Third  : 15 March 2013
Readings

Date of commencement      : 18 April 2013

4. Act 44 of 2014 — Public Trustee (Amendment) Act 2014

Date of First Reading     : 7 October 2014 (Bill No. 34/2014
                                published on 7 October 2014)

Date of Second and Third  : 3 November 2014
Readings

Date of commencement      : 31 December 2014

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                          ii

5. Act 26 of 2016 — Central Provident Fund (Amendment No. 2) Act 2016

Date of First Reading     : 13 September 2016 (Bill No. 26/2016
                                published on 13 September 2016)

Date of Second and Third  : 10 October 2016
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 January 2017

6. Act 31 of 2017 — Monetary Authority of Singapore (Amendment) Act
                           2017

Date of First Reading     : 8 May 2017
                                (Bill No. 25/2017)

Date of Second and Third  : 4 July 2017
Readings

Date of commencement      : 29 October 2018

7. Act 31 of 2018 — Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners' Protection
                           Schemes (Amendment) Act 2018

Date of First Reading     : 17 May 2018 (Bill No. 21/2018
                                published on 17 May 2018)

Date of Second and Third  : 9 July 2018
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 April 2019

8. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018

Date of First Reading     : 10 September 2018 (Bill No. 32/2018
                                published on 10 September 2018)

Date of Second and Third  : 1 October 2018
Readings

Date of commencement      : 30 July 2020

9. Act 27 of 2019 — Work Injury Compensation Act 2019

Date of First Reading     : 5 August 2019 (Bill No. 21/2019
                                published on 5 August 2019)

Date of Second and Third  : 3 September 2019
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 September 2020

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                          iii

10. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019

Date of First Reading     : 7 October 2019 (Bill No. 32/2019
                                published on 7 October 2019)

Date of Second and Third  : 5 November 2019
Readings

Date of commencement      : 2 January 2021

11. Act 1 of 2020 — Banking (Amendment) Act 2020

Date of First Reading     : 4 November 2019
                                (Bill No. 35/2019)

Date of Second and Third  : 6 January 2020
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 July 2021

12. 2020 Revised Edition — Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners'
                                     Protection Schemes Act 2011

Operation                 : 31 December 2021

13. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022

Date of First Reading     : 12 September 2022
                                (Bill No. 24/2022)

Date of Second and Third  : 3 October 2022
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 November 2022 (section 20(2))

14. G.N. No. S 706/2023 — Deposit Insurance and Policy Owners- Protection
                                   Schemes Act 2011 (Amendment of First
                                   Schedule) Order 2023

Date of commencement      : 1 April 2024

15. Act 18 of 2022 — Financial Services and Markets Act 2022

Date of First Reading     : 14 February 2022
                                (Bill No. 4/2022)

Date of Second and Third  : 5 April 2022
Readings

Date of commencement      : 10 May 2024 (Section 198)

16. Act 5 of 2025 — Electronic Gazette and Legislation Act 2025

Bill                      : 47/2024

First Reading             : 11 November 2024

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
Second and Third Readings   iv
Commencement               : 7 January 2025
                           : 9 March 2025

.                        Abbreviations

G.N.          (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.      Gazette Notification
L.A.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.          Legislative Assembly
M.            Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
              Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.         Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S             Malaysia)
S.I.          Parliament
S (N.S.)      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.      Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)  Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
              COMPARATIVE TABLE

           DEPOSIT INSURANCE AND
        POLICY OWNERS’ PROTECTION

                SCHEMES ACT 2011

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

        2020 Ed.           2012 Ed.

9—(4)             9—(3A)
   (5)               (4)
   (6)               (5)

10—(2)            10—(1A)
   (3)               (2)

46—(2)            46—(1A)
   (3)               (1B)
   (4)               (2)
   (5)               (3)
   (6)               (4)
   (7)               (5)
   (8)               (6)
   (9)               (7)

54—(2)            54—(1A)
   (3)               (2)
   (4)               (3)
   (5)               (3A)
   (6)               (3B)
   (7)               (3C)
   (8)               (4)
   (9)               (5)

57—(4)            57—(3A)

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                           ii

                 2020 Ed.           2012 Ed.
   (5)
82—(2)                        (4)
   (3)                     82—(1A)
[Omitted as spent]
92—(12)                       (2)
                           92—(12)

                              (13)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
