THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
         COMMUNITY DISPUTES RESOLUTION
                               ACT 2015

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
                                                                                                             2020 Ed.

  Community Disputes Resolution
                Act 2015

                           ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                                            PART 1
                                      PRELIMINARY
Section
     1. Short title
     2. General interpretation

                                            PART 2
           TORT OF INTERFERENCE WITH ENJOYMENT OR USE

                              OF PLACE OF RESIDENCE
     3. Interpretation of this Part
     4. Tort of interference with enjoyment or use of place of residence
     5. Orders of court
     6. Special direction on breach of court order, etc.
     7. Breach of special direction an offence
     8. Section 6 not to apply to certain court orders
     9. Exclusion order
   10. Breach of exclusion order an offence
   11. Termination of tenancy, etc.
   11A. Order to address hoarding
   12. Community order
   12A. Mandatory treatment orders
   13. Exemption

                                           PART 2A
                       COMMUNITY RELATIONS OFFICERS

                                 Division 1 — Preliminary
   13A. Interpretation of this Part

                                                           1

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                        2

                    Division 2 — Director-General of
          Community Relations, community relations officers

               and auxiliary community relations officers

Section   Appointment of Director-General, Directors, Deputy Directors
   13B.   and Senior Assistant Directors of Community Relations
          Appointment of community relations officers
   13C.   Appointment of auxiliary community relations officers
   13D.   Identification cards and equipment
   13E.   Public servants
   13F.

          Division 3 — Powers and duties of Director-General,
                         community relations officers

                and auxiliary community relations officers

13G.      Powers and duties under this Part subject to prescribed
          limitations
13H.      Authorisation of community relations officers and auxiliary
          community relations officers to exercise powers
13I.      Powers of community relations officers
13J.      Powers of auxiliary community relations officers
13K.      Discretion not to investigate or take further action

          Division 4 — Abatement orders

13L. Powers to issue and enforce abatement orders

          Division 5 — Referral for mediation

13M. Referral for mediation by community relations officer, etc.

          Division 6 — Offences

13N.      Obstructing community relations officer or auxiliary community
          relations officer
13O.      Damaging, altering, etc., detection and monitoring equipment
13P.      Offence of providing false information, etc.
13Q.      Impersonating community relations officer or auxiliary
          community relations officer
13R.      Failure to comply with mediation direction

          Division 7 — Enforcement

13S.      Power to investigate offences under this Part
13T.      Notice to attend court
13U.      Composition of offences under this Part
13V.      Community Order for offences under this Part

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
   Community Disputes Resolution

3  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

   Division 8 — General

Section

   13W. Appeal to Minister
   13X. Preservation of secrecy
   13Y. Protection from personal liability
   13Z. Regulations
   13ZA. Designation of persons to exercise Minister’s duties and powers
   13ZB. Exemption
   13ZC. Service of directions, orders or notices

                                           PART 3

            COMMUNITY DISPUTES RESOLUTION TRIBUNALS

              Division 1 — Establishment and jurisdiction of tribunal

   14. Community Disputes Resolution Tribunals
   15. Jurisdiction, powers and duties of Registrar
   16. Application of State Courts Act 1970 and other written laws
   17. Jurisdiction of tribunal
   17A. Application by Director-General for tribunal to determine

            possible claim or application
   18. Exclusion of other jurisdictions
   19. No division of claims
   20. Transfer of claim, etc., from tribunal to court
   21. Costs in transferred cases

                      Division 2 — Proceedings before tribunal

   22. Sittings in private, etc.
   23. Evidence
   24. Enforcement of orders, etc.
   25. No costs allowed except as provided in Act

                          Division 3 — Appeals from tribunal

   26. Appeals from tribunal
   27. Appeal not to operate as stay of execution or enforcement
   28. Judgment or order of General Division of High Court to be final

                               Division 4 — Miscellaneous

   29. Right of audience
   29A. Tribunal may order attendance of certain persons
   30. Referral of cases to Community Mediation Centre, etc.
   31. Person not precluded from filing claim in court

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                   4

Section   Registration of settlement agreement as order of tribunal
   31A.   Measures for dealing with unmeritorious or vexatious
   31B.   proceedings
          Limited civil restraint orders
   31C.   Extended civil restraint orders
   31D.   General civil restraint orders
   31E.

                                        PART 4

                                      GENERAL

32. Rules of Court
33. Regulations
34. Composition of offences

An Act to facilitate the resolution of community disputes by
  providing for a statutory tort for community disputes, a
  community disputes management framework and for the
  establishment of Community Disputes Resolution Tribunals to
  deal with such disputes, and for matters connected therewith.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

                                                              [1 October 2015]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Community Disputes Resolution Act 2015.

General interpretation
 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “auxiliary community relations officer” means an auxiliary
         community relations officer appointed under section 13D;

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

      “claim” includes a counterclaim;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
   Community Disputes Resolution

5  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

   “Community Disputes Resolution Tribunal” or “tribunal” means
      a District Court designated under section 14 as a Community
      Disputes Resolution Tribunal;

                                                                          [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

   “Community Mediation Centre” means a Community Mediation
      Centre established under section 3 of the Community
      Mediation Centres Act 1997;

   “community relations officer” means a community relations
      officer appointed under section 13C;

                                                                          [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

   “Deputy Director” means a Deputy Director of Community
      Relations appointed under section 13B;

                                                                          [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

   “Director” means a Director of Community Relations appointed
      under section 13B;

                                                                          [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

   “Director-General” means the Director-General of Community
      Relations appointed under section 13B;

                                                                          [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

   “Registrar” means the registrar of the State Courts appointed
      under section 12 of the State Courts Act 1970 and includes a
      deputy registrar appointed under that section;

   “Registry” means the Registry of the State Courts;

                                                                          [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

   “Senior Assistant Director” means a Senior Assistant Director of
      Community Relations appointed under section 13B;

                                                                          [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

   “statutory body” means a body corporate established by or under
      a public Act for the purposes of a public function;

                                                                          [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

   “unreasonable interference”, in relation to a neighbour of an
      individual, means unreasonable interference with the

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 6

         enjoyment or use of the place of residence that the neighbour
         resides in.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

 (2) For the purposes of the definition of “unreasonable
interference” in subsection (1) —

(a) whether an act or omission causes interference with a
     neighbour’s enjoyment or use of his or her place of
     residence is to be construed in accordance with
     section 4(2); and

(b) whether a person is a neighbour of an individual is to be
     construed in accordance with section 4(4) and (5).

                                                                    [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

                                    PART 2

   TORT OF INTERFERENCE WITH ENJOYMENT OR USE
                       OF PLACE OF RESIDENCE

Interpretation of this Part

 3. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “court” means a court of competent jurisdiction and includes a
         Community Disputes Resolution Tribunal;

      “exclusion order” means an order made under section 9(2)
         excluding a contravening party (within the meaning of that
         section) from his or her place of residence;

      “place of residence” means a house, a flat, an apartment or other
         dwelling place used for the purpose of residence;

      “special direction” means a direction made by a court under
         section 6(2) against a contravening party (within the meaning
         of that section);

      “vicinity”, in relation to a place of residence, includes any
         common corridor, common space or common property, any
         road, or any building or other property, in the surrounding
         area of the place of residence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
   Community Disputes Resolution

7  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

Tort of interference with enjoyment or use of place of residence

 4.—(1) An individual who resides in a place of residence (called in
this Part the respondent) must not, by his or her act or omission,
directly or indirectly, and whether intentionally, recklessly or
negligently, cause unreasonable interference with his or her
neighbour’s enjoyment or use of the place of residence that the
neighbour resides in.

 (2) An act or omission by a respondent which may cause
interference with his or her neighbour’s enjoyment or use of the
neighbour’s place of residence may include (but is not limited to) any
of the following:

   (a) causing excessive noise, smell, smoke, light or vibration;

   (b) littering at or in the vicinity of the neighbour’s place of
        residence;

   (c) obstructing the neighbour’s place of residence, by placing
       any thing or object, or by any other manner, at or in the
       vicinity of the neighbour’s place of residence;

   (d) interfering with the neighbour or the neighbour’s movable
        property, at or in the vicinity of the neighbour’s place of
        residence;

   (e) surveillance of the neighbour or of the neighbour’s place of
       residence, where the surveillance is done at or in the
       vicinity of that place of residence;

   (f) trespassing on the neighbour’s place of residence;

   (g) allowing an animal owned by or under the care or control
        of the respondent to trespass on the neighbour’s place of
        residence, to cause excessive noise or smell, or to defecate
        or urinate at or in the vicinity of the neighbour’s place of
        residence.

 (3) A neighbour of a respondent may bring civil proceedings in a
court against the respondent for the respondent’s wrongful act or
omission in subsection (1).

 (4) For the purposes of this section, a neighbour of a respondent is
an individual who lawfully resides in a place of residence —

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 8

(a) that is in the same building as the respondent’s place of
     residence; or

(b) that is within 100 metres of the respondent’s place of
     residence,

but does not include an individual who occupies the same place of
residence as the respondent.

                                         Illustrations

      (a) X and Y live in the same apartment but in different rooms. X and Y
occupy the same place of residence.

      (b) An apartment with the same registered address is partitioned into
sub‑divided units with separate entrances. X and Y live in different sub‑divided
units in this apartment with the same registered address. X and Y occupy the same
place of residence.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (4)(b), that distance is to be
measured from any part of the boundary of one place of residence to
any part of the boundary of the other place of residence.

Orders of court

 5.—(1) A court may make one or more of the following orders if the
court is satisfied on a balance of probabilities that a claim under
section 4 by a respondent’s neighbour has been made out against the
respondent, and is satisfied that it is just and equitable to do so:

       (a) an order for damages;

       (b) an order granting an injunction;

       (c) an order for specific performance;

       (d) an order that the respondent provide an apology to the
            neighbour, in such form or manner as the court thinks fit;

      (da) any other order that the court may make under this Act;

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

       (e) any ancillary order as may be necessary to give effect to
            any of the court’s orders.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
   Community Disputes Resolution

9  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

 (2) In deciding whether it is just and equitable for any order to be
made under subsection (1), the court is to consider all the following
matters:

   (a) the impact of the order, if made, on —

   (i) the respondent;

   (ii) any individual who, at the time of the making of the
        order, resides in the same place of residence as the
        respondent; and

   (iii) any other person who can reasonably be expected to
         be affected by the order;

   (b) the ordinary instances of daily living that can be expected
        to be tolerated by reasonable persons living in Singapore;

   (c) any other matters as the court deems fit.

 (3) To avoid doubt, an order made under this section by the consent
of the parties or in the absence of a party, in accordance with Rules of
Court made under section 32, has the same force and effect as if the
order were made by the court under this section after a hearing by the
court.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Special direction on breach of court order, etc.

 6.—(1) Where a respondent (called in this Part the contravening
party) fails to comply with an order of court made under section 5
(called in this section the disobeyed order), the party in whose favour
the disobeyed order was made may apply to a relevant court for a
direction that the contravening party must comply with the disobeyed
order.

 (2) Any court (at first instance or on appeal) may make a direction
that a contravening party comply with a disobeyed order within a
specified time if the court is satisfied on a balance of probabilities that
the contravening party has, without reasonable excuse, failed to
comply with the disobeyed order.

 (3) Where a court in subsection (2) makes a special direction, the
court may also order any person as the court may specify, to enter into

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 10

a bond to ensure that the contravening party complies with that
direction.

 (4) The court may, in making an order under subsection (3) for a
person to enter into a bond, impose such conditions on or give such
directions to that person, as part of the bond, as the court thinks fit, for
the purpose of ensuring that the contravening party complies with the
special direction.

 (5) No order under subsection (3) may be made without giving the
person mentioned in that subsection an opportunity to attend and be
heard.

 (6) Despite subsection (5), an order under subsection (3) may be
made if the person mentioned in subsection (3), having been given an
opportunity to attend and be heard, has failed to do so or cannot be
found within a reasonable time.

 (7) A person who fails to comply with an order to enter into a bond
under subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

 (8) Where a person is convicted of an offence under subsection (7)
for failure to comply with an order to enter into a bond, the failure to
comply with that order is not punishable as a contempt of court.

 (9) A person is not to be convicted of an offence under
subsection (7) in respect of any non‑compliance which has been
punished as a contempt of court.

 (10) In this section, “relevant court”, in relation to an application
for a special direction, means the court of first instance which heard
the claim under section 4 (whether or not the claim was allowed), or
its equivalent.

Breach of special direction an offence

 7.—(1) A contravening party who, without reasonable excuse, fails
to comply with a special direction shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 3 months or to both; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

11  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

    (b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
         exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
         which the offence continues after conviction, but not
         exceeding $10,000 in total.

 (2) It is not a defence for a person charged with an offence under
subsection (1) that the court which made an order under section 5 or
the court which made a special direction should not have, for
whatever reason, made that order or direction.

 (3) Where a person is convicted of an offence under subsection (1)
for failure to comply with a special direction, the failure to comply
with the special direction as well as the failure to comply with the
order of court made under section 5 which is the subject of that
special direction is not punishable as a contempt of court.

 (4) A person shall not be convicted of an offence under
subsection (1) in respect of any non‑compliance which has been
punished as a contempt of court.

Section 6 not to apply to certain court orders

 8. Section 6 does not apply to an order of court made under
section 5 which requires a contravening party to pay damages.

Exclusion order

 9.—(1) Where a contravening party fails to comply with a special
direction, the party in whose favour the special direction was made
may apply to a court (called in this section a second court) for an
order that the contravening party be excluded from his or her place of
residence.

 (2) A second court may make an exclusion order if the court is
satisfied on a balance of probabilities that the contravening party has,
without reasonable excuse, failed to comply with a special direction,
and is satisfied that it is just and equitable to do so.

 (3) A second court may make an exclusion order on such terms and
conditions as the court thinks fit.

 (4) In deciding whether it is just and equitable for an exclusion
order to be made, the court is to consider all the following matters:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 12

(a) the impact of the order, if made, on —

          (i) the contravening party;

          (ii) any individual who, at the time of the making of the
               order, resides in the same place of residence as the
               contravening party; and

          (iii) any other person who can reasonably be expected to
                be affected by the order;

(b) any other matters as the court deems fit.

 (5) To avoid doubt, a court may make more than one exclusion
order under this section against the same contravening party.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Breach of exclusion order an offence

 10.—(1) A contravening party who, without reasonable excuse,
fails to comply with an exclusion order shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 3 months or to both; and

       (b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction, but not
            exceeding $10,000 in total.

 (2) Where a person is convicted of an offence under subsection (1)
for failure to comply with an exclusion order, the failure to comply
with the exclusion order is not punishable as a contempt of court.

 (3) A person shall not be convicted of an offence under
subsection (1) in respect of any non‑compliance which has been
punished as a contempt of court.

Termination of tenancy, etc.

 11.—(1) Where a person who is ordered to enter into a bond under
section 6(3) is a landlord of the place of residence a contravening
party resides in (called in this section the specified residence), the
landlord is entitled to terminate, in accordance with subsection (2),

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

13  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

any tenancy relating to that specified residence to which the landlord
is party.

 (2) A tenancy may be terminated by giving written notice which
must specify a date of re‑possession that is at least 14 days after the
date on which the notice is given.

 (3) A landlord is entitled to terminate a tenancy in accordance with
this section despite anything in any other law or in any agreement,
and section 18 of the Conveyancing and Law of Property Act 1886
does not apply to or in relation to any tenancy which is lawfully
terminated under this section.

 (4) A landlord is not liable in respect of any termination of a
tenancy in accordance with this section.

 (5) Where a landlord terminates a tenancy for a specified residence
in accordance with this section and there is a subtenancy derived out
of that tenancy in relation to that specified residence —

    (a) the tenant is not liable in respect of any termination of that
         subtenancy, if the tenant is not a contravening party; and

    (b) section 18 of the Conveyancing and Law of Property
         Act 1886 does not apply in relation to that subtenancy.

                                         Illustrations

      (a) X lets out a place of residence to Y. Y, or another person occupying that
place of residence, is a contravening party. If a court orders X to enter into a bond
under section 6(3), X is entitled to terminate the entire tenancy with Y, even if the
contravening party only occupies a part of that place of residence.

      (b) X lets out one part of a place of residence to Y under a tenancy with Y. X
lets out another part of the place of residence to Z under a separate tenancy with Z.
Y, or a person occupying the part of the place of residence which is the subject of
Y’s tenancy with X, is a contravening party. If a court orders X to enter into a bond
under section 6(3), X is entitled to terminate the tenancy which X has entered into
with Y but may not terminate the tenancy which X has entered into with Z.

Order to address hoarding

 11A.—(1) A tribunal may, on the application of the Director-
General, make an order to authorise a community relations officer or
any other person specified in the order to remove and dispose of any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                  14

thing or material in a place of residence specified in the order if the
tribunal is satisfied on a balance of probabilities that —

(a) there are accumulated or stockpiled, excessive or
     unconstrained things or material in the place of residence
     that a reasonable person would consider to be of low or no
     value or no utility in the circumstances;

(b) the individual residing in the place of residence is
     unwilling or unable to remove or dispose of those things
     or material despite a notice or advisory to do so given by a
     community relations officer, a public officer, an officer or
     employee of a statutory body or a person exercising a
     public official function;

          (c) the accumulation or stockpiling of those things or material
              in the place of residence is of a nature or in a quantity that is
              causing unreasonable interference to the individual’s
              neighbour; and

(d) an order for specific performance had been made under
     section 5(1)(c) whether before, on or after the appointed
     date but prior to the Director-General’s application, for the
     removal and disposal of the things or material mentioned in
     paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) but any term of the order has not
     been complied with.

 (2) The order of the tribunal made under subsection (1) may
authorise a community relations officer or any other person specified
in the order to do any of the following with or without the consent of
the owner or occupier of the place of residence:

(a) enter a place of residence at any reasonable time of the day
     for the purpose of enforcing the order;

(b) remove and dispose of any thing or material in the place of
     residence, that if not removed or disposed of would in the
     opinion of a reasonable person cause unreasonable
     interference to the individual’s neighbour;

          (c) do any other act that may be specified in the order.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

15  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

 (3) The tribunal may vary, suspend or revoke the order made under
subsection (1) on the application of the Director-General or any party
to the order.

 (4) In this section, “appointed date” means the date of
commencement of section 11 of the Community Disputes
Resolution (Amendment) Act 2024.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Community order

 12. Where a court convicts any person for an offence under
section 6, 7 or 10, the court has the power to make a community order
under Part 17 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 despite any
provision to the contrary in section 337(1)(h) of that Code.

Mandatory treatment orders

 12A.—(1) This section applies if the court is satisfied on a balance
of probabilities that as a result of a respondent’s (X) unreasonable
interference with the respondent’s neighbour’s (Y) enjoyment or use
of the place of residence that Y resides in —

       (a) an action on a claim under section 4, brought on or after the
            appointed date, by Y has been made out against X;

       (b) X failed to comply with an order of court made under
            section 5 pursuant to an action on a claim brought on or
            after the appointed date;

       (c) X failed to comply with a settlement agreement treated as
            an order of court under section 31A and registered on or
            after the appointed date; or

       (d) X failed to comply with a special direction made under
            section 6 for failure to comply with an order of court or
            settlement agreement mentioned in paragraph (b) or (c),
            respectively.

Power to make mandatory treatment orders

 (2) The court may make a mandatory treatment order requiring X to
undergo psychiatric treatment for a specified period, but X must not
be subject to one or more mandatory treatment orders for a total

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.             Act 2015                                      16

period longer than 36 months in respect of the same basis for the
court’s satisfaction in subsection (1).

(3) A mandatory treatment order may be made —

(a) on the initiative of the court; or

(b) on an application by —

          (i) Y; or

          (ii) the Director-General.

Preliminary grounds

 (4) Before making a mandatory treatment order, the court must
have reasonable grounds to believe that —

       (a) X is likely to be suffering from a psychiatric condition; and

       (b) the psychiatric condition is likely to be a contributing
            factor for X’s conduct or behaviour that was the basis for
            the court’s satisfaction in subsection (1).

 (5) Before deciding whether reasonable grounds exist for the
purpose of subsection (4), the court —

       (a) may call for a preliminary assessment report by a specified
            psychiatrist; and

       (b) must consider any prescribed matter.

 (6) If the court calls for a preliminary assessment report, the
court —

       (a) may order X to attend before the specified psychiatrist at
            the times and places required by the specified psychiatrist;
            and

       (b) must cause a copy of the report to be extended to —

               (i) X;

              (ii) X’s advocate and solicitor; or

             (iii) X’s representative mentioned in section 29(2).

 (7) There is no appeal against any decision of the court to call for or
not to call for a preliminary assessment report.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

17  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

Calling for formal assessment report

 (8) If the court considers that reasonable grounds exist for the
purpose of subsection (4) —

    (a) the court must call for a formal assessment report on X by
         an appointed psychiatrist; and

    (b) subsections (9) to (13) apply to the preparation of the
         report.

(9) The court may order X to —

    (a) reside in a psychiatric institution for observation for one or
         more periods (each not exceeding 3 weeks) as the court
         thinks fit; or

    (b) attend before the appointed psychiatrist at a psychiatric
         institution at the times required by the appointed
         psychiatrist.

(10) The appointed psychiatrist must assess and report whether —

    (a) X is suffering from a psychiatric condition;

    (b) the psychiatric condition is a contributing factor for X’s
         conduct or behaviour that was the basis for the court’s
         satisfaction in subsection (1);

    (c) the psychiatric condition is susceptible to treatment; and

    (d) X is suitable for the treatment.

 (11) In assessing whether X is a person suitable for treatment for his
or her psychiatric condition, the appointed psychiatrist may consider
the following factors:

    (a) whether X is likely to attend the treatment sessions at the
         times and places required by the appointed psychiatrist;

    (b) X’s physical and mental state;

    (c) X’s financial standing and ability to pay all or any part of
        the cost of the treatment that is reasonable for X to pay.

 (12) X may submit a report by another psychiatrist, engaged by X, to
the appointed psychiatrist within —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 18

(a) 3 weeks after the date the court calls for the formal
     assessment report; or

(b) any longer period allowed by the court.

 (13) Before making the formal assessment report, the appointed
psychiatrist must consider any report submitted by X under
subsection (12).

 (14) The court must cause a copy of the formal assessment report to
be given to —

(a) X;

(b) X’s advocate and solicitor; or

          (c) X’s representative mentioned in section 29(2).

Matters to be certified before mandatory treatment order may
be made

 (15) A mandatory treatment order may only be made if the formal
assessment report certifies all the following matters:

       (a) X is suffering from a psychiatric condition;

       (b) the psychiatric condition is a contributing factor for X’s
            conduct or behaviour that was the basis for the court’s
            satisfaction in subsection (1);

       (c) the psychiatric condition is susceptible to treatment;

       (d) X is suitable for the treatment.

 (16) A mandatory treatment order must not be made if the formal
assessment report certifies that the appointed psychiatrist is not
satisfied as to any of the matters specified in subsection (15).

 (17) The formal assessment report is to be taken to be final and
conclusive as to the matters specified in subsection (15).

Contents of mandatory treatment order
 (18) A mandatory treatment order may require X to reside in —
       (a) a psychiatric institution; or
       (b) a prescribed place that provides psychiatric treatment,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

19  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

during the whole or a specified part of the period during which X is
required by the order to undergo psychiatric treatment.

 (19) However, the requirement in subsection (18) may be imposed
only if it is recommended by the appointed psychiatrist.

 (20) A mandatory treatment order may include conditions specified
by the court.

Explanation of mandatory treatment order

 (21) Before making a mandatory treatment order, the court must
explain to X in ordinary language —

       (a) the purpose and effect of the order, and in particular the
            obligations of X as specified in subsection (22);

       (b) the consequences that may follow if X fails to comply with
            any of those obligations, or any conditions or requirements
            of the order; and

       (c) that the court has the power, under subsection (23), to vary
            or revoke the order on an application by the appointed
            psychiatrist.

Obligations of person under mandatory treatment order

 (22) If the court makes a mandatory treatment order, X must, while
the order is in force —

       (a) attend the treatment sessions at the times and places
            required by the appointed psychiatrist;

       (b) comply with all other conditions in connection with X’s
            treatment as the appointed psychiatrist may require; and

       (c) comply with all other conditions or requirements of the
            order.

Variation and revocation of mandatory treatment order

 (23) A mandatory treatment order may be varied or revoked by the
court on an application by the appointed psychiatrist.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 20

(24) A variation of a mandatory treatment order may include —

(a) reducing or extending the period that X has to undergo
     psychiatric treatment; and

(b) varying the conditions or requirements of the order.

 (25) However, the period for which X has to undergo psychiatric
treatment under a mandatory treatment order must not be extended
beyond 36 months after the date the order is first in force.

 (26) An application to vary or revoke a mandatory treatment order
must be accompanied by the appointed psychiatrist’s report on —

(a) the extent to which X has complied with the order; and

(b) any progress X has made in the treatment.

 (27) In deciding whether to vary or revoke a mandatory treatment
order, the court must consider —

(a) the report by the appointed psychiatrist; and

(b) any change of circumstances after the order was made.

Contempt of court

 (28) To avoid doubt, X commits contempt of court if he or she
intentionally contravenes subsection (22) or an order under
subsection (6)(a) or (9).

Regulations

 (29) The Minister charged with the responsibility for health may
make regulations in relation to the treatment of a person subject to a
mandatory treatment order, including but not limited to, prescribing
the matters and places mentioned in subsections (5)(b) and (18)(b),
respectively.

Definitions, etc.

 (30) In this section —

      “appointed date” means the date of commencement of
         section 13 of the Community Disputes Resolution
         (Amendment) Act 2024;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

21  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

    “appointed psychiatrist” means a psychiatrist appointed by the
       Director-General of Health for the purposes of this section;

    “psychiatric institution” has the same meaning given by
       section 2(1) of the Mental Health (Care and Treatment) Act
       2008;

    “specified psychiatrist” means a psychiatrist, or a registered
       medical practitioner in post‑graduate psychiatry training,
       specified by the court calling for a preliminary assessment
       report under subsection (5)(a).

 (31) To avoid doubt, this section does not apply to any criminal
proceedings or affect the application of section 339 of the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010 in criminal proceedings.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 01/09/2026]

Exemption

 13. The Minister may exempt from the application of section 6(3)
any person or class of persons as the Minister may, by order in the
Gazette, prescribe.

                                   PART 2A
               COMMUNITY RELATIONS OFFICERS

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

                         Division 1 — Preliminary
Interpretation of this Part

 13A. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “abate”, in relation to an act or omission causing unreasonable
         interference, includes to prevent, reduce, eliminate or control
         the act or omission;
      “auxiliary police officer” means an auxiliary police officer
         appointed under Part 9 of the Police Force Act 2004;
      “court” means a court of competent jurisdiction and includes a
         Community Disputes Resolution Tribunal;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 22

“detection and monitoring equipment” means any equipment or
   device (including any software) or a combination of such
   equipment and devices (including any software) that is
   capable of detecting, monitoring or recording any activity
   causing unreasonable interference in a place of residence or
   the vicinity of a place of residence;

“entity responsible for the vicinity of a place of residence”
   means a person, agency or other entity that has the charge,
   management or control of the vicinity of the place of
   residence either on his, her or its own account or as agent of
   another person, including but not limited to, the Housing and
   Development Board established under the Housing and
   Development Act 1959, a Town Council established under
   the Town Councils Act 1988 or a management corporation
   for a strata title plan;

“occupier”, in relation to a place of residence, means a person in
   occupation of the place of residence or having the charge,
   management or control of the place either on his, her or its
   own account or as agent of another person, but does not
   include a lodger;

“owner”, in relation to a place of residence, means a person other
   than the mortgagee or chargee not in possession, who is for
   the time being entitled to dispose of the freehold of the place
   of residence whether in possession or reversion, or who holds
   under a leasehold or is entitled to the rents and profits of the
   place of residence;

“place of residence” means a house, a flat, an apartment or other
   dwelling place used for the purpose of residence;

“prescribed limitations” means the limitations prescribed under
   section 13G;

“suspected individual” means an individual who is suspected of
   an act or omission which causes unreasonable interference
   with his or her neighbour’s enjoyment or use of the place of
   residence that the neighbour resides in;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

23  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

    “vicinity”, in relation to a place of residence, includes any
       common corridor, common space or common property, any
       road, or any building or other property, in the surrounding
       area of the place of residence.

              [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

                    Division 2 — Director-General of
          Community Relations, community relations officers

               and auxiliary community relations officers

Appointment of Director-General, Directors, Deputy Directors
and Senior Assistant Directors of Community Relations

 13B.—(1) The Minister may appoint any person to be the Director-
General of Community Relations who is responsible for the
administration of this Part and to perform the following functions:

       (a) to facilitate the amicable and early resolution of disputes
            relating to unreasonable interference with an individual’s
            enjoyment or use of his or her place of residence;

       (b) to administer this Part subject to the general or special
            directions of the Minister;

       (c) to inform and advise the Minister on matters relating to this
            Part;

       (d) to perform such other functions and duties as the Minister
            may assign to the Director-General.

 (2) The Minister may in writing appoint such numbers of Directors
of Community Relations, Deputy Directors of Community Relations
and Senior Assistant Directors of Community Relations as the
Minister may consider expedient or necessary for the purposes of this
Part.

 (3) An appointment under subsection (1) must be published in the
Gazette.

 (4) Subject to the directions of the Director-General, the powers
and duties of the Director-General under this Act may be exercised

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 24

and discharged by a Director, Deputy Director or Senior Assistant
Director of Community Relations.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Appointment of community relations officers

 13C.—(1) The Director-General may in writing appoint any of the
following individuals to be a community relations officer to facilitate
the amicable and early resolution of disputes relating to unreasonable
interference with an individual’s enjoyment or use of his or her place
of residence in any particular area or areas in Singapore:

       (a) a police officer;

       (b) a public officer;

       (c) an officer or employee of a statutory body.

 (2) The Director-General may, for any reason that appears to the
Director-General to be sufficient, at any time revoke an individual’s
appointment as a community relations officer.

 (3) An individual who is appointed as a community relations officer
under subsection (1) does not, only because of the appointment,
become an employee or agent of the Government.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Appointment of auxiliary community relations officers

 13D.—(1) The Director-General may in writing appoint any of the
following individuals who is at least 18 years of age to be an auxiliary
community relations officer to facilitate the amicable and early
resolution of disputes relating to unreasonable interference with an
individual’s enjoyment or use of his or her place of residence in any
particular area or areas in Singapore:

       (a) an auxiliary police officer;

       (b) an individual who is not mentioned in section 13C(1) but
            who has the suitable training to properly exercise the
            powers of an auxiliary community relations officer.

 (2) The Director-General may, for any reason that appears to the
Director-General to be sufficient, at any time revoke an individual’s
appointment as an auxiliary community relations officer.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

25  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

 (3) An individual who is appointed as an auxiliary community
relations officer under subsection (1) does not, only because of the
appointment, become an employee or agent of the Government.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Identification cards and equipment

 13E.—(1) The Director-General must issue to each community
relations officer and auxiliary community relations officer an
identification card, which must be carried at all times by the
community relations officer or auxiliary community relations officer
(as the case may be) when exercising powers under any provision in
this Act or in any other written law.

 (2) A community relations officer and an auxiliary community
relations officer whose appointment as such ceases must return any
identification card issued to him or her under subsection (1) to the
Director-General.

 (3) A community relations officer and an auxiliary community
relations officer must produce his or her identification card for
inspection —

       (a) before exercising a power under this Act; and

       (b) at any time during the exercise of a power under this Act, if
            asked to do so.

 (4) A community relations officer and an auxiliary community
relations officer is to be issued with such equipment, or such
description of equipment, as the Director-General may determine to
be necessary for the effectual discharge of the duties of a community
relations officer or an auxiliary community relations officer, as the
case may be.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Public servants

 13F. A community relations officer and an auxiliary community
relations officer who, in the course of his or her duty as a community
relations officer or an auxiliary community relations officer (as the
case may be), exercises any power under this Part, in accordance with
the written authorisation of the Director-General is taken to be a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 26

public servant for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871 when
exercising the power.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

        Division 3 — Powers and duties of Director-General,
                        community relations officers

               and auxiliary community relations officers

Powers and duties under this Part subject to prescribed
limitations

 13G.—(1) The powers and duties of the Director-General,
Directors, Deputy Directors, Senior Assistant Directors,
community relations officers and auxiliary community relations
officers under this Part (called in this section the powers and duties)
are subject to the following limitations that the Minister may
prescribe by regulations made under section 13Z:

       (a) limitations as to the categories or types of unreasonable
            interference in relation to which the powers and duties may
            be exercised or performed;

       (b) limitations as to the degree of seriousness or severity of the
            unreasonable interference before certain powers and duties
            may be exercised or performed;

       (c) limitations as to the conduct of any relevant person or other
            circumstances in which the powers and duties may be
            exercised or performed;

       (d) limitations as to the geographical area or location in which
            the powers and duties may be exercised or performed;

       (e) limitations as to the types and capabilities of the detection
            and monitoring equipment that may be used or installed.

 (2) The regulations mentioned in subsection (1) may —

       (a) make different provisions for different categories or types
            of unreasonable interference;

       (b) make different provisions for different classes of powers
            and duties that may be exercised or performed under
            different provisions of this Part;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

27  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

    (c) provide for the scope and application of any of the
        prescribed limitations to be determined by the Director-
        General including but not limited to determining the
        degree of seriousness or severity of the unreasonable
        interference before certain powers and duties may be
        exercised; and

    (d) provide for factors which may be taken into account by the
         Director-General in determining whether a particular
         complaint or circumstance falls within the scope of the
         prescribed limitations.

                                                                        [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Authorisation of community relations officers and auxiliary
community relations officers to exercise powers

 13H.—(1) The Director-General must issue each community
relations officer and auxiliary community relations officer a written
authorisation specifying each power mentioned in section 13I, 13J,
13L or 13M that the community relations officer or auxiliary
community relations officer (as the case may be) may exercise
subject to the prescribed limitations.

 (2) A community relations officer or an auxiliary community
relations officer (as the case may be) who is authorised to exercise
any power under section 13I, 13J, 13L or 13M may only exercise the
power —

       (a) to the extent authorised by the Director-General under this
            section and subject to the prescribed limitations; and

       (b) in any case where an individual is suspected of an act or
            omission which causes unreasonable interference with his
            or her neighbour’s enjoyment or use of the place of
            residence that the neighbour resides in.

 (3) The Director-General’s authorisation under subsection (1) for a
community relations officer or an auxiliary community relations
officer (as the case may be) may also do all or any of the following:

       (a) limit the powers in section 13I, 13J, 13L or 13M that the
            community relations officer or auxiliary community
            relations officer (as the case may be) may exercise;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 28

(b) limit when the community relations officer or auxiliary
     community relations officer (as the case may be) may
     exercise those powers;

          (c) limit the geographical area or location in Singapore in
              which the community relations officer or auxiliary
              community relations officer (as the case may be) may
              exercise those powers;

(d) limit the categories or types of unreasonable interference in
     relation to which those powers may be exercised by the
     community relations officer or auxiliary community
     relations officer, as the case may be;

          (e) limit the circumstances in which the community relations
              officer or auxiliary community relations officer (as the case
              may be) may exercise those powers.

 (4) A community relations officer or an auxiliary community
relations officer who is authorised under subsection (1) to exercise
any power under section 13I, 13J, 13L or 13M (as the case may be)
must obey all lawful directions (general or specific) of the Director-
General when exercising that power.

 (5) Nothing in section 13I, 13J, 13L or 13M and this section limits
the Director-General of Public Health’s powers under Part 5 of the
Environmental Public Health Act 1987 or a Magistrate Court’s
powers under section 15 of the Miscellaneous Offences (Public Order
and Nuisance) Act 1906.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Powers of community relations officers

 13I.—(1) The powers that a community relations officer may be
authorised under section 13H to exercise are all or any of the
following:

       (a) to require a suspected individual to state the suspected
            individual’s name and residential address;

       (b) to require any person present or residing in a place of
            residence to provide information on the identity and
            particulars of the owner of or any person residing in the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

29  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

    same place of residence, where an act or omission causing
    unreasonable interference was reasonably suspected to
    have been committed in that place;

    (c) to require any of the following individuals to attend before
        a community relations officer, if any prior reasonable
        attempt to meet and communicate with the individual has
        not been successful:

    (i) a suspected individual;

    (ii) any complainant against the suspected individual;

    (iii) any other individual who may assist in the
          investigation of the complaint against the suspected
          individual;

    (d) to advise a suspected individual to abate the act or
         omission causing unreasonable interference;

    (e) to photograph or film, or otherwise make an audio or visual
        recording in the place or the vicinity of the place where, or
        in respect of which, an act or omission causing
        unreasonable interference was committed or was
        reasonably suspected to have been committed, and any
        individual, thing, document or record in that place and to
        retain the photograph, film or recording;

    (f) to make a copy of and retain the copy of any document or
        record mentioned in paragraph (e);

    (g) to take statements from —

    (i) a suspected individual;

    (ii) any complainant against the suspected individual; or

    (iii) any other individual who may assist in the
          investigation of the complaint against the suspected
          individual;

    (h) to require any individual or complainant mentioned in
         paragraph (g) to make and sign a declaration of the truth of
         the statement that he or she makes;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 30

          (i) to issue a written warning to a suspected individual to
              cease any act or omission causing unreasonable
              interference;

          (j) to issue written advisories to residents to maintain
              neighbourly relations and community peace;

          (k) to carry out an order made by a tribunal under section 11A
              and for this purpose the community relations officer may
              exercise the powers mentioned in this section;

          (l) to serve or deliver to a suspected individual, if he or she is
              alleged to have committed an offence, an offer of
              composition made by the Director-General or a person
              authorised by the Director-General;

(m) to enter a place of residence at any reasonable time of the
     day, with the consent of the owner or occupier of the place
     of residence, for the purpose —

          (i) of installing detection and monitoring equipment; or

          (ii) of exercising any power under paragraph (e) or (f);

(n) to install detection and monitoring equipment in the
     vicinity of a place of residence without entering the
     place of residence and with the consent of the entity
     responsible for the vicinity of the place of residence;

(o) to serve or deliver any other direction, notice, order or
     requirement issued by the Director-General, a community
     relations officer or a tribunal under this Act.

 (2) The powers that a community relations officer may be
authorised under section 13H to exercise, with the Director-
General’s prior written approval, are all or any of the following:

(a) to require any person, organisation or public agency to
     provide information on the identity and particulars of the
     owner of or any person or tenant residing in a place of
     residence in respect of which an act or omission causing
     unreasonable interference was reasonably suspected to
     have been committed;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

31  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

    (b) to require any person to provide any other information in
         the possession or within the knowledge of that person that
         in the opinion of the Director-General is required to
         investigate an act or omission causing unreasonable
         interference that was reasonably suspected to have been
         committed;

    (c) to enter a place of residence at any reasonable time of the
        day, without the consent of the owner or occupier of the
        place of residence for the purpose of exercising any power
        under subsection (1)(e) or (f).

 (3) A community relations officer may, in the exercise of his or her
powers under subsection (1)(m)(i) and (n) and (2)(c), be accompanied
by a person authorised by the Director-General to render technical
and other assistance.

 (4) The Director-General or a community relations officer may
disclose or provide any information, statement, image, audio or visual
recording, document or other evidence obtained under this section —

    (a) to any court in relation to or in support of any claim or
         application under this Act; or

    (b) for the purposes of exercising the functions or powers of
         the Director-General or a community relations officer
         under this Act.

 (5) To avoid doubt, it is not necessary to obtain the consent of the
owner or occupier of the place of residence mentioned in
subsection (1)(n) in exercising the power in that provision to install
detection and monitoring equipment in the vicinity of that place of
residence.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Powers of auxiliary community relations officers

 13J.—(1) The powers that an auxiliary community relations officer
may be authorised under section 13H to exercise are all or any of the
following:

       (a) to require a suspected individual to state the suspected
            individual’s name and residential address;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 32

(b) to advise a suspected individual to abate the act or
     omission causing unreasonable interference;

          (c) to photograph or film, or otherwise make an audio or visual
              recording in the place or the vicinity of the place where, or
              in respect of which, an act or omission causing
              unreasonable interference was committed or was
              reasonably suspected to have been committed, and any
              individual, thing, document or record in that place and to
              retain the photograph, film or recording;

(d) to make a copy of and retain the copy of any document or
     record mentioned in paragraph (c);

          (e) to take statements from —

          (i) a suspected individual;

          (ii) any complainant against the suspected individual; or

          (iii) any other individual who may assist in the
                investigation of the complaint against the suspected
                individual;

          (f) to require any individual or complainant mentioned in
              paragraph (e) to make and sign a declaration of the truth of
              the statement which he or she makes;

(g) to serve or deliver a written warning to cease any act or
     omission causing unreasonable interference;

(h) to serve or deliver written advisories to residents to
     maintain neighbourly relations and community peace;

          (i) to accompany and assist a community relations officer in
              the exercise of the community relations officer’s powers
              under this Part, subject to the directions of the community
              relations officer;

          (j) to serve or deliver to a suspected individual, if he or she is
              alleged to have committed an offence, an offer of
              composition made by the Director-General or a person
              authorised by the Director-General;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

33  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

    (k) to serve or deliver any other direction, notice, order or
        requirement issued by the Director-General, a community
        relations officer or a tribunal under this Act.

 (2) The powers that an auxiliary community relations officer may
be authorised under section 13H to exercise, with the Director-
General’s prior written approval, are all or any of the following:

    (a) to install detection and monitoring equipment in the
         vicinity of a place of residence without entering the
         place of residence and with the consent of the entity
         responsible for the vicinity of the place of residence;

    (b) to enter a place of residence at any reasonable time to
         install detection and monitoring equipment with the
         consent of the owner or occupier of the place of residence.

 (3) An auxiliary community relations officer may, in the exercise of
his or her powers under subsection (2), be accompanied by a person
authorised by the Director-General to render technical and other
assistance.

 (4) The Director-General or an auxiliary community relations
officer may disclose or provide any information, statement, image,
audio or visual recording, document or other evidence obtained under
this section —

    (a) to any court in relation to or in support of any claim or
         application under this Act; or

    (b) for the purposes of exercising the functions or powers of
         the Director-General or an auxiliary community relations
         officer under this Act.

 (5) To avoid doubt, it is not necessary to obtain the consent of the
owner or occupier of the place of residence mentioned in
subsection (2)(a) in exercising the power in that provision to install
detection and monitoring equipment in the vicinity of that place of
residence.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 34

Discretion not to investigate or take further action

 13K.—(1) The Director-General or a community relations officer
may dismiss any complaint relating to unreasonable interference
without any investigation or further action, if the Director-General or
the officer is satisfied that the complaint is trivial, frivolous or
vexatious or not made in good faith.

 (2) The Director-General may in writing direct that a person be
prohibited from making any further complaint if the Director-General
is satisfied that the person had habitually and persistently, and without
any reasonable ground, made trivial, frivolous or vexatious
complaints relating to unreasonable interference.

 (3) In deciding whether to issue a direction against a person under
subsection (2), the Director-General may consider all the
circumstances of the case including whether any civil restraint
order under section 31C, 31D or 31E has been made against the
person.

 (4) Any person who without reasonable excuse fails to comply with
a direction issued under subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

 (5) Without affecting subsections (1) and (2), the Director-General
or a community relations officer may dismiss any complaint relating
to unreasonable interference without any investigation or further
action after considering the following factors:

(a) the likelihood that an amicable resolution to the dispute
     may be achieved;

(b) the availability and need to prioritise the resources
     available;

          (c) the degree of seriousness or severity of the alleged
              unreasonable interference.

                                                                              [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

35  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

    Division 4 — Abatement orders

Powers to issue and enforce abatement orders

 13L.—(1) The Director-General may issue an abatement order in
writing against any suspected individual or any other individual
residing in the same place of residence as the suspected individual
if —

    (a) the Director-General is satisfied after considering any
         complaint and the evidence and information obtained by
         the community relations officer or auxiliary community
         relations officer under section 13I or 13J (as the case may
         be) that the suspected individual or another individual
         residing in the same place of residence was responsible for
         the act or omission causing unreasonable interference;

    (b) the suspected individual or another individual residing in
         the same place of residence was given a reasonable
         opportunity to make representations to the Director-
         General; and

    (c) the suspected individual or another individual residing in
        the same place of residence was previously issued a written
        warning to cease that act or omission causing unreasonable
        interference but failed to do so.

(2) Despite subsection (1), where the Director-General —

    (a) has reasonable grounds to believe that the act or omission
         causing unreasonable interference mentioned in
         subsection (1)(a) poses a serious and imminent threat or
         risk to the mental or physical health or welfare of other
         persons in the vicinity of the place of residence; and

    (b) is satisfied that it is impracticable in the circumstances of
         the particular case for the requirements in subsection (1)(b)
         and (c) to be complied with,

the Director-General may issue an abatement order in writing under
subsection (1) without complying with subsection (1)(b) and (c)
except that a reasonable opportunity to make representations to the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 36

Director-General must be given immediately after the abatement
order is issued.

 (3) An abatement order may for the purpose of abating the act or
omission causing unreasonable interference —

(a) require the individual specified in the abatement order to
     stop or to take any reasonable steps to stop any act
     specified in the order within a reasonable time specified in
     the order;

(b) require the individual specified in the abatement order to
     take any reasonable steps to stop any act, specified in the
     order, by any other individual residing in the same place of
     residence within a reasonable time specified in the order;

          (c) require any other specified steps to be taken to abate the act
              or omission causing unreasonable interference; and

(d) impose any conditions that the Director-General thinks fit.

 (4) The Director-General may vary or revoke any abatement order
issued under subsection (1).

 (5) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with an abatement order within the time specified in the order shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 and, in the case of a
     continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000
     for every day or part of a day during which the offence
     continues after conviction; and

(b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
     not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
     exceeding 3 months or to both and, in the case of a
     continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000
     for every day or part of a day during which the offence
     continues after conviction.

 (6) The Director-General may (even though proceedings for an
offence under subsection (5) have not started) authorise in writing a
community relations officer to exercise the powers set out in
subsection (7) if the Director-General is satisfied that —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

37  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) an individual has, without any reasonable excuse, failed (in
         whole or in part) to comply with an abatement order within
         the time specified in the order;

    (b) at least 2 written warnings have been given to the
         individual to comply with the order; and

    (c) in the case where any instrument or object was used to
        cause the unreasonable interference, the removal of the
        instrument or object will reduce the unreasonable
        interference.

 (7) The powers mentioned in subsection (6) are all or any of the
following:

    (a) to enter a place of residence at any reasonable time of the
         day (with or without the consent of the owner or occupier
         of the place of residence) for the purpose of taking
         reasonable steps to abate or investigate the act or omission
         causing unreasonable interference;

    (b) to require an owner or occupier of the place of residence to
         produce and surrender any instrument or object suspected
         to have been used to cause the unreasonable interference;

    (c) to take reasonable steps, with or without the consent of the
        owner or occupier of the place of residence —

    (i) to abate or investigate the act or omission causing
        unreasonable interference in any appropriate
        manner; or

    (ii) to seize and remove any instrument or object
         suspected to have been used to cause the
         unreasonable interference;

    (d) to retain or dispose of, in accordance with regulations
         made under section 13Z, any instrument or object that has
         been seized or removed under paragraph (c)(ii).

(8) Despite subsection (6), where the Director-General —

    (a) has reasonable grounds to believe that the failure to comply
         with an abatement order mentioned in subsection (6)(a)
         poses a serious and imminent threat or risk to the mental or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 38

          physical health or welfare of other persons in the vicinity
          of the place of residence; and

(b) is satisfied that it is impracticable in the circumstances of
     the particular case for the requirement in subsection (6)(b)
     to be complied with,

the Director-General may authorise in writing a community relations
officer to exercise any of the powers set out in subsection (7) without
complying with subsection (6)(b).

 (9) An auxiliary community relations officer may accompany and
assist a community relations officer in the exercise of the community
relations officer’s powers under subsection (7), subject to the
directions of the community relations officer.

 (10) To avoid doubt, any reasonable step taken under subsection (7)
does not affect any proceedings for an offence under subsection (5)
but may be taken into consideration by the court in those proceedings.

 (11) Where the abatement order under subsection (1) is issued to an
individual who is not the owner of the place of residence in which that
individual resides, the Director-General must cause a copy of the
order to be given to the owner.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

                   Division 5 — Referral for mediation

Referral for mediation by community relations officer, etc.

 13M.—(1) Despite any written law, the persons mentioned in
subsection (2) may in writing direct all or any of the following
persons to a Community Mediation Centre or to any other prescribed
person or entity for mediation (called in this section a mediation
entity), with or without the consent of the persons to be directed for
mediation:

       (a) the individuals involved in a complaint or dispute
            involving alleged unreasonable interference with a
            neighbour’s enjoyment or use of the neighbour’s place of
            residence;

       (b) a landlord of the place of residence of an individual
            mentioned in paragraph (a).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

39  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

 (2) The persons who may issue a direction under subsection (1)
are —

    (a) a community relations officer so authorised under this Part;

    (b) where the complaint or dispute involves an allegation that a
         person who is a party to a settlement agreement breached
         the settlement agreement — a person authorised in writing
         by the mediation entity that administered the mediation
         where the settlement agreement was made;

    (c) a person authorised in writing by a mediation entity that
        administers a mediation under a direction issued under
        subsection (1); and

    (d) any of the following persons appointed in writing by the
         Minister to issue a direction under subsection (1) subject to
         any condition or limitation that the Minister may impose:

    (i) a public officer;

    (ii) an officer or employee of a statutory body.

 (3) The persons mentioned in subsection (2) may, in issuing a
direction under subsection (1), direct all or any of the persons referred
for mediation to attend (personally or by a representative permitted
under section 14 of the Community Mediation Centres Act 1997 or
under a prescribed written law) before a mediation entity —

    (a) at a time and place to be specified in the direction; or

    (b) in the case where the mediation is to be conducted by
         electronic communication, video conferencing or other
         electronic means, at a time to be specified in the direction
         and in accordance with the electronic means specified in
         the direction.

(4) A direction issued under subsection (1) is final.

 (5) Without affecting section 30, a direction under subsection (1)
must not be made with respect to a complaint or dispute involving
alleged unreasonable interference with a neighbour’s enjoyment or
use of the neighbour’s place of residence where —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 40

(a) an action on a claim under section 4 has been brought in
     any court; and

(b) the subject of the claim is substantially the same as that of
     the complaint or dispute.

                                                                    [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

                           Division 6 — Offences

Obstructing community relations officer or auxiliary
community relations officer

 13N.—(1) Any person who without reasonable excuse —

       (a) refuses to give access to, or obstructs, hinders or delays; or

       (b) refuses to comply with any request, demand or order made
            or given by,

a community relations officer or an auxiliary community relations
officer in the discharge of his or her duties under this Act shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (2) However, it is not an offence under subsection (1) for any
person to refuse to comply with any request, demand or order made or
given by a community relations officer or an auxiliary community
relations officer (as the case may be) who —

       (a) fails to declare his or her office; or

       (b) refuses to produce his or her identification card on demand
            being made by that person.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Damaging, altering, etc., detection and monitoring equipment

 13O. Any person who without reasonable excuse —

       (a) damages or alters; or

       (b) obstructs or impairs the proper functioning of,

any detection and monitoring equipment that has been installed in a
place of residence or in the vicinity of a place of residence by a

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

41  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

community relations officer or an auxiliary community relations
officer pursuant to his or her powers under section 13I or 13J shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Offence of providing false information, etc.

 13P.—(1) If —

       (a) a person provides a document, or makes a statement
            (whether orally, in writing or any other way) or gives
            information, to the Director-General, a Director, a Deputy
            Director, a Senior Assistant Director, a community
            relations officer or an auxiliary community relations
            officer;

       (b) the document, statement or information is false or
            misleading, or the statement or information omits any
            matter or thing without which the statement or information
            (as the case may be) is misleading;

       (c) the person knows, or ought reasonably to know, that the
            document is false or misleading, or that the statement or
            information is as described in paragraph (b); and

       (d) the document is provided, or the statement is made or the
            information is given, for or in connection with a question
            or request of the Director-General, a Director, a Deputy
            Director, a Senior Assistant Director, a community
            relations officer or an auxiliary community relations
            officer (as the case may be) under this Act,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the document, statement or
information is not false or misleading in a material particular, or if the
statement or information did not omit any matter or thing without

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 42

which the statement or information (as the case may be) would be
misleading in a material particular.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Impersonating community relations officer or auxiliary
community relations officer

 13Q.—(1) An individual who represents himself or herself, by
word or conduct to be a community relations officer or an auxiliary
community relations officer, when he or she is not a community
relations officer or an auxiliary community relations officer (as the
case may be), shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,500 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (2) However, it is a defence in any proceedings for an offence under
subsection (1) where the accused proves, on a balance of
probabilities, that the accused used or possessed the equipment or
identification card issued under section 13E for the purposes of a
public entertainment provided in compliance with the Public
Entertainments Act 1958.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Failure to comply with mediation direction

 13R.—(1) A person served a direction under section 13M(1)
(called in this section a mediation direction) commits an offence if he
or she does not attend the mediation (personally or by a
representative) at the time specified in the direction.

 (2) A person (A) who attends a mediation (personally or by a
representative) at a time specified in a mediation direction commits
an offence if A or A’s representative (as the case may be) withdraws
from the mediation before the person conducting the mediation in
accordance with that direction allows A or A’s representative (as the
case may be) to do so.

 (3) It is a defence for any person charged with an offence for
contravening subsection (1) or (2) to prove that the person had a
reasonable excuse for the contravention.

 (4) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) or (2)
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,500.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

43  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

 (5) In this section, “representative”, in relation to a person A who is
served a mediation direction, means another person permitted, under
section 14 of the Community Mediation Centres Act 1997 or under a
prescribed written law, to represent A at the mediation.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

                         Division 7 — Enforcement

Power to investigate offences under this Part

 13S.—(1) For the purpose of investigating any offence under this
Part, the Director-General or a community relations officer may —

       (a) examine orally any person supposed to be acquainted with
            the facts and circumstances of the case; and

       (b) by written order require any person within the limits of
            Singapore, who appears to be acquainted with the facts and
            circumstances of the case, to attend before the Director-
            General or community relations officer.

 (2) The person mentioned in subsection (1)(a) is bound to state
truly the facts and circumstances with which the person is acquainted
concerning the case except only that the person may decline to make,
with regard to any fact or circumstance, a statement which would
have a tendency to expose the person to a criminal charge or to
penalty or forfeiture.

 (3) A statement made by any person examined under this section
must —

       (a) be reduced to writing;

       (b) be read over to the person;

       (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted
            for the person in a language that the person understands;
            and

       (d) after correction, if necessary, be signed by the person.

 (4) If any person fails to attend before the Director-General or a
community relations officer as required by a written order under
subsection (1)(b), the Director-General or community relations
officer may report such failure to a Magistrate who may issue a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 44

warrant to secure the attendance of that person as required by the
order.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Notice to attend court

 13T.—(1) Where the Director-General or a community relations
officer has reasonable grounds for believing that a person has
committed an offence under this Part, the Director-General or
community relations officer may, in lieu of applying to a court for
a summons, serve upon that person a prescribed notice requiring that
person to attend at the court described, at the hour and on the date
specified in the notice.

 (2) A duplicate of the notice must be prepared by the Director-
General or a community relations officer and, if so required by a
court, produced to the court.

 (3) The notice may be served on the person alleged to have
committed the offence in the same manner as the service of a
summons under section 116 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

 (4) On an accused person appearing before a court pursuant to a
notice under subsection (1), the court is to take cognizance of the
offence alleged, and is to proceed as though the accused person were
produced before it pursuant to section 153 of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010.

 (5) If a person upon whom a notice has been served under
subsection (1) fails to appear before a court in person or by
counsel as required by that notice, the court may, if satisfied that the
notice was duly served, issue a warrant for the arrest of the person
unless, in the case of an offence which may be compounded, that
person has before that date been permitted to compound the offence.

 (6) Upon a person arrested pursuant to a warrant issued under
subsection (5) being produced before a court, the court is to proceed
as though the person were produced before it pursuant to section 153
of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

45  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

 (7) The Director-General or a community relations officer may, at
any time before the date specified in the notice under subsection (1),
cancel the notice.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Composition of offences under this Part

 13U.—(1) The Director-General or a person authorised by the
Director-General may compound any offence under this Part that is
prescribed as a compoundable offence —

       (a) by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
            committed the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of
            the following:

               (i) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
                   prescribed for the offence;

              (ii) $2,000; and

       (b) by requiring the person reasonably suspected of having
            committed the offence to do, or to refrain from doing, such
            things as may be specified in an offer of composition
            (called conditions of composition) by the Director-General
            with the concurrence (general or specific) of the Public
            Prosecutor.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money and on full compliance with
the conditions of composition, no further proceedings are to be taken
against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) The Minister may make regulations to prescribe the offences
that may be compounded under this section.

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Community Order for offences under this Part

 13V. Where a court convicts any person for an offence under this
Part, the court has the power to make a community order under
Part 17 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 despite any provision to
the contrary in section 337(1)(h) of that Code.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.            Act 2015                                       46

                    Division 8 — General

Appeal to Minister

 13W.—(1) A person who is aggrieved by an order issued under
section 13L may, within 14 days after receiving the order, appeal in
the prescribed manner to the Minister.

 (2) Despite any appeal made under subsection (1), the order
appealed against takes effect and must be complied with unless
otherwise provided in this Act or ordered by the Minister.

(3) The Minister may, after considering the appeal —

(a) dismiss or allow the appeal;

(b) confirm, vary or revoke the order; or

          (c) impose such conditions as the Minister thinks fit.

 (4) The Minister may, in considering an appeal under this section,
give the appellant an opportunity to make representations in writing.

(5) The Minister’s decision on any appeal is final.

                                                                             [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Preservation of secrecy

 13X.—(1) An individual who is or has been —

       (a) a public officer;

       (b) an officer or employee of a statutory body;

       (c) a police officer or other officer of any law enforcement
            agency;

       (d) a community relations officer or an auxiliary community
            relations officer; or

       (e) a contractor engaged by the Government or an employee of
            that contractor,

must not disclose any information relating to the affairs of the
Director-General, a Director, a Deputy Director or a Senior Assistant
Director or of any other person which has been obtained by the
individual in the performance of his or her duties or the exercise of his
or her functions under this Act, except —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

47  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

    (f) for the purposes of the performance of his or her duties or
        the exercise of his or her functions under this Act or other
        written law;

    (g) for the purpose of assisting any person (being a public
         officer, officer or employee of a statutory body or person
         exercising a public official function) who is responsible for
         administering or enforcing any written law, to administer
         or enforce that written law;

    (h) with the prior authorisation of the Minister;

    (i) where permitted or authorised under this Act; or

    (j) when lawfully required to do so by any court or where
        required or allowed to do so by the provisions of any
        written law.

 (2) Any individual who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

 (3) Subject to this section, any monitoring data is to be used by the
Director-General, a Director, a Deputy Director, a Senior Assistant
Director, a community relations officer or an auxiliary community
relations officer only for the purposes of this Part and for the purposes
of a claim or an application to a tribunal or court under this Act.

(4) In this section, “monitoring data” means —

    (a) any photograph, image or audio or visual recording taken
         or captured by a community relations officer or an
         auxiliary community relations officer pursuant to his or
         her powers under section 13I or 13J; or

    (b) any information and data recorded in any detection and
         monitoring equipment installed pursuant to section 13I or
         13J.

                                                                        [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Protection from personal liability

 13Y. No liability shall lie against the Director-General, a Director, a
Deputy Director, a Senior Assistant Director, a community relations

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 48

officer, an auxiliary community relations officer or any other person
authorised under this Act for anything which is done or intended to be
done with reasonable care and in good faith in —

(a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
     Act; or

(b) the performance or purported performance of any function
     under this Act.

                                                                    [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Regulations

 13Z.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for carrying out the
purposes and provisions of this Part and for any matter which is
required under this Part to be prescribed.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may make
regulations for all or any of the following matters:

       (a) the fees to be paid in respect of any application under this
            Part and otherwise in connection with the administration of
            this Part, and the waiver, remission or refund (in whole or
            in part) of the fees;

       (b) the manner in which fees are to be paid;

       (c) the form, manner and procedure by which an application or
            a complaint relating to unreasonable interference is to be
            made to the Director-General, a community relations
            officer or an auxiliary community relations officer, and
            the persons who may make such applications or
            complaints;

       (d) to provide for the manner and procedure for the retention
            or disposal of any instrument or object mentioned in
            section 13L(7) including for the manner of disposal to be
            determined by the Director-General;

       (e) to provide for such saving, transitional and other
            consequential, incidental and supplemental provisions as
            are necessary or expedient for the purposes of this Part.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

49  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

 (3) The powers conferred by this section do not extend to any
matter for which Rules of Court may be made under section 32.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Designation of persons to exercise Minister’s duties and powers

 13ZA.—(1) The Minister may designate any of the following
persons to perform any of the duties or exercise any of the powers of
the Minister under this Part (except for the powers under this section
and section 13Z) as the Minister may specify:

       (a) the Second Minister (if any) for his or her Ministry;

       (b) any Minister of State, including a Senior Minister of State,
            for his or her Ministry;

       (c) any Parliamentary Secretary, including a Senior
            Parliamentary Secretary, to his or her Ministry.

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), the Minister may designate
any public officer in his or her Ministry not subordinate to the
Director-General whose decision or order is appealed against, to hear
and determine (in the Minister’s place) any appeal under
section 13W.

 (3) A reference to the Minister in this Part (except for this section
and section 13Z) includes a reference to a person designated under
subsection (1).

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Exemption

 13ZB. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any
person or class of persons from all or any of the provisions of this
Part, either generally or in a particular case and subject to any
condition that the Minister may impose.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Service of directions, orders or notices
 13ZC.—(1) A direction, order or notice issued under this Part must

be served as described in this section.
 (2) The direction, order or notice may be served —
       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.               Act 2015                                    50

(b) by sending it by post to the address specified by the
     individual for the service of the direction, order or notice
     or, if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
     address or business address;

          (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
              adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
              business address with an adult apparently employed there;

(d) by affixing a copy of the direction, order or notice in a
     conspicuous place at the individual’s residential address or
     business address; or

          (e) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
              address.

(3) Service of the direction, order or notice takes effect —

(a) if the direction, order or notice is sent by email, at the time
     that the email becomes capable of being retrieved by the
     person to whom it is sent; or

(b) if the direction, order or notice is sent by post, 2 days after
     the day the direction, order or notice was posted (even if it
     is returned undelivered).

 (4) However, service of a direction, order or notice on an individual
by email may be effected only with the individual’s prior written
consent to service in that way.

 (5) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

(6) In this section —

“business address” means the individual’s usual or last known
   place of business in Singapore;

“last email address” means the last email address given by the
   individual to the person serving the direction, order or notice
   as the email address to serve a direction, order or notice;

“residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
   place of residence in Singapore.

                                 [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

51  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

    PART 3

    COMMUNITY DISPUTES RESOLUTION TRIBUNALS

    Division 1 — Establishment and jurisdiction of tribunal

Community Disputes Resolution Tribunals

 14.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, the Presiding Judge of the
State Courts may —

    (a) designate one or more District Courts as Community
         Disputes Resolution Tribunals; and

                                                                        [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

    (b) designate so many District Judges, as may be necessary, as
         tribunal judges for the Community Disputes Resolution
         Tribunals.

 (2) A tribunal is to be presided over by a tribunal judge designated
under subsection (1)(b).

Jurisdiction, powers and duties of Registrar

 15. The Registrar is, subject to this Act and any other written law, to
have such jurisdiction, powers and duties as may be prescribed by the
Rules of Court.

Application of State Courts Act 1970 and other written laws

 16. Subject to this Act and except as otherwise provided in any
regulations made under section 33 —

       (a) the provisions of the State Courts Act 1970 apply to the
            Community Disputes Resolution Tribunals;

       (b) unless the context otherwise requires, any reference in any
            written law to a District Court or a State Court includes a
            reference to a Community Disputes Resolution Tribunal;
            and

       (c) unless the context otherwise requires, any reference in any
            written law to a District Judge or a judicial officer includes
            a reference to a tribunal judge.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.                  Act 2015                                 52

Jurisdiction of tribunal

17.—(1) A tribunal has jurisdiction only —

(a) to hear and determine any action on a claim under
     section 4, whether the action was brought by a claimant
     or initiated pursuant to the Director-General’s application
     under section 17A; and

       (b) to exercise any function or make any order a court or a
            tribunal may make under this Act.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 01/09/2026]

 (2) Where an action brought by a claimant includes a claim or
matter which is not within the tribunal’s jurisdiction under
subsection (1) (called in this section the non‑relevant claim), the
tribunal must dismiss the action in its entirety if —

       (a) the claimant does not first withdraw, discontinue or
            abandon the non‑relevant claim; or

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

       (b) an application under section 20 is not first made to transfer
            the whole proceedings or the proceedings on the
            non‑relevant claim.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (3) Except where this Act expressly provides otherwise, the
tribunal’s jurisdiction does not extend to a claim under section 4 —

(a) which exceeds the prescribed limit; or

(b) which is brought more than 2 years after the cause of action
     has accrued.

 (4) Where the amount of a claim exceeds the prescribed limit, the
claimant may abandon the excess amount and thereafter —

(a) the amount of the claim is deemed to be within the
     prescribed limit;

(b) the tribunal has jurisdiction to hear and determine the
     claim;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

53  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

       (c) the claimant may not obtain in the claim any remedy or
            relief, in respect of the action, the value of which exceeds
            the prescribed limit; and

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

       (d) an order of the tribunal in relation to the claim will be in
            full discharge of all demands in respect of the claim.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (5) The prescribed limit, in relation to the jurisdiction of the
tribunal, is $20,000 or such other amount as the Minister may, after
consultation with the Chief Justice, substitute by order in the Gazette.

Application by Director-General for tribunal to determine
possible claim or application

 17A.—(1) If the Director-General is satisfied that it is necessary to
do so in the interests of preserving peace in the area where the persons
involved in a dispute reside, the Director-General may make an
application to a tribunal in the manner provided in Rules of Court
made under section 32 for the tribunal to hear and determine —

       (a) a claim under section 4 in relation to unreasonable
            interference that occurred on or after the appointed date
            even though no claimant has brought an action on the
            claim; or

       (b) an application under section 6 or 9, in relation to an alleged
            failure to comply with an order of court made under
            section 5 or a special direction made under section 6
            occurring on or after the appointed date, even though the
            party in whose favour an order under section 5 or a special
            direction under section 6 has been made has not made any
            such application.

 (2) The Director-General may, together with any application under
subsection (1) (called in this section the Director-General’s
application), submit to the tribunal any information, statement,
image, audio or visual recording, document or other evidence that the
Director-General considers necessary or helpful to the tribunal’s
hearing and determination of the claim or application, as the case may
be.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 54

 (3) When the tribunal decides to approve the Director-General’s
application —

(a) an action on the claim under section 4 relating to the
     dispute or an application under section 6 or 9 (as the case
     may be) is deemed to have been brought from the date of
     the tribunal’s approval or any other date specified by the
     tribunal;

(b) this Act (including section 17(3), (3A), (4) and (5)) applies
     to the action as if a claimant had brought the action or made
     the application on that date; and

          (c) the Registrar is to fix a time and place to hear the action on
              the claim under section 4 or the application under section 6
              or 9 (as the case may be) and issue a notice to any person
              that appears to be a party or respondent to the claim or the
              application (as the case may be), including any person
              identified by the tribunal as such a party or respondent.

 (4) A person issued a notice under subsection (3)(c) upon being
served the notice —

(a) is deemed to be a party or respondent to the action on the
     claim under section 4 or the application under section 6 or
     9, as the case may be; and

(b) is liable to comply with any order of the tribunal and to pay
     any fees or costs as if the person were the party or
     respondent mentioned in paragraph (a).

 (5) In this section, “appointed date” means the date of
commencement of section 17 of the Community Disputes
Resolution (Amendment) Act 2024.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 01/09/2026]

Exclusion of other jurisdictions

 18.—(1) Where an action on a claim (called in this section the
firstmentioned proceedings) is commenced in a tribunal, no other
civil proceedings relating to that claim (called in this section the
second‑mentioned proceedings) may be commenced in any other
court except —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

55  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) where the second‑mentioned proceedings were
         commenced in that other court before the firstmentioned
         proceedings were commenced in the tribunal; or

    (b) where the claim before the tribunal is withdrawn,
         discontinued or abandoned, or is dismissed for lack of
         jurisdiction.

 (2) No action for a claim may be brought before a tribunal if civil
proceedings relating to that claim are pending in or have been heard
and determined by any other court.

No division of claims

 19. A claim may not be split or divided and pursued in separate
proceedings before a tribunal for the sole purpose of bringing the sum
claimed in each of such proceedings within the jurisdiction of a
tribunal.

Transfer of claim, etc., from tribunal to court

 20.—(1) Where any claim, counterclaim or set-off and
counterclaim in proceedings before a tribunal is or includes a claim
or matter not within the tribunal’s jurisdiction (called in this section
the non-relevant claim), the tribunal may, on its own motion or on the
application of any party in the proceedings, order that the whole
proceedings, or the proceedings on the non-relevant claim, be
transferred to the appropriate court.

 (2) Where an order is made under subsection (1) and the tribunal
gives judgment to the claimant in proceedings related to the claim or
matter in which the tribunal has jurisdiction, enforcement of the
judgment is to be stayed until the proceedings transferred to the
appropriate court have been concluded, unless that court at any time
orders otherwise.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

Costs in transferred cases

 21. Where the whole or any part of the proceedings are transferred
pursuant to an order of court under section 20(1) —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 56

 (a) the costs of the proceedings which are transferred (both before
and after the transfer) are, subject to any order made by the court
which ordered the transfer, to be in the discretion of the court to which
those proceedings are transferred; and

(b) the court to which those proceedings are transferred may
     make orders with respect to the costs and as to the scales on
     which the costs of the several parts of those proceedings
     are to be paid.

                                                                    [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

               Division 2 — Proceedings before tribunal

Sittings in private, etc.

 22.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), all matters and proceedings in a
tribunal are to be heard in private.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (2) A tribunal has the power to hear any matter or part of a matter in
an open and public manner to which the public generally may have
access, if the tribunal is satisfied that it is expedient in the interests of
justice, or for other sufficient reason to do so.

 (3) A tribunal may, in any matter or proceeding or any part of it
which is tried or held or to be tried or held before the tribunal, if
satisfied that it is expedient in the interests of justice, public safety,
public security or propriety, or for other sufficient reason to do so,
order that any of the following, which is contained in any tribunal
document or intended to be produced before the tribunal, be removed
or be sufficiently redacted:

       (a) the name, address or photograph of any witness in that
            matter or proceeding;

       (b) any evidence or any other thing likely to lead to the
            identification of any such witness by any person other than
            a party to that matter or proceeding.

 (4) A tribunal may make an order under subsection (3) on its own
motion or on the application of any party to the matter or proceeding
before the tribunal.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

57  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

 (5) A tribunal may, on its own motion or on the application of any
party to a matter or proceeding before the tribunal, at any time order
that no person is to —

    (a) publish the name, address or photograph of any witness in
         the matter or proceeding or any part of it tried or held or to
         be tried or held before the tribunal, or any evidence or any
         other thing likely to lead to the identification of any such
         witness; or

    (b) do any other act which is likely to lead to the identification
         of any such witness.

 (6) Any person who acts in contravention of any order under
subsection (3) or (5) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Evidence

 23.—(1) A tribunal is not to be bound by the rules of evidence but
may inform itself on any matter in such manner as the tribunal thinks
fit.

 (2) Evidence tendered to a tribunal by or on behalf of a party to any
proceedings need not be given on oath but the tribunal may, at any
stage of the proceedings, require that such evidence or any part of it
be given on oath whether orally or in writing.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), a tribunal judge is
empowered to administer an oath.

 (4) A tribunal may require any written evidence given in the
proceedings before the tribunal to be verified by statutory declaration.

Enforcement of orders, etc.

 24. A decision, a direction or an order of a tribunal or the Registrar
may be enforced in any manner which may be prescribed under this
Act or by any other written law.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.               Act 2015                                    58

No costs allowed except as provided in Act

 25. Except as otherwise provided in this Act, costs, other than
disbursements, must not be granted to or awarded against any party to
any proceedings before a tribunal or the Registrar.

          Division 3 — Appeals from tribunal

Appeals from tribunal

 26.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), an appeal lies to the General
Division of the High Court only against a decision, a direction or an
order of a tribunal —

(a) on any ground involving a question of law;

(b) on the ground that the claim was outside the jurisdiction of
     the tribunal;

          (c) made under section 6(2) or (3), 9(2), 11A, 12A, 31B, 31C,
              31D or 31E; or

                                                                              [Act 43 of 2024 wef 01/09/2026]

(d) which is a final order.

                                                                   [40/2019]

 (2) An appeal lies to the General Division of the High Court under
this section only if permission to appeal is given by a tribunal.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (3) An order of the tribunal giving or refusing permission under
subsection (2) is final and is not subject to any appeal.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Appeal not to operate as stay of execution or enforcement

 27.—(1) An appeal from a tribunal does not operate as a stay of
execution or enforcement of a decision, a direction or an order (as the
case may be) of the tribunal appealed from, unless the tribunal or the
General Division of the High Court otherwise orders.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (2) An order of a stay of execution or enforcement may be subject
to such conditions as to costs, payment into a tribunal or the General

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

59  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

Division of the High Court, the giving of security or otherwise, as the
tribunal or the General Division of the High Court thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Judgment or order of General Division of High Court to be
final

 28. A judgment or an order of the General Division of the High
Court, on an appeal under section 26, is final and is not subject to any
appeal.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

                        Division 4 — Miscellaneous

Right of audience

 29.—(1) Subject to this section, a party to proceedings before the
Registrar or a tribunal must present his or her own case.

 (2) The following persons may present a case on behalf of a party to
proceedings before the Registrar or a tribunal:

       (a) where the party is a minor and is, in the opinion of the
            Registrar or tribunal, unable to present his or her own case,
            the minor’s parent or guardian, or any other person as may
            be approved by the Registrar or tribunal (as the case may
            be);

       (b) where the party is not resident in Singapore and is unable to
            remain in Singapore until the hearing of the case, any other
            person who is duly authorised in writing by that party and
            who is approved by the Registrar or tribunal (as the case
            may be);

       (c) where the party who, in the opinion of the Registrar or
            tribunal (as the case may be), is unable to present his or her
            own case by reason of old age, illiteracy or infirmity of
            mind or body, any other person who is duly authorised in
            writing by that party or who is approved by the Registrar or
            tribunal (as the case may be);

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 60

       (d) where the party is the Director-General, a public officer or
            any other person who is approved by the Registrar or
            tribunal, as the case may be.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

 (3) Despite subsection (2), no party (other than the Director-
General) to any proceedings before the Registrar or a tribunal may be
represented by an advocate and solicitor unless —

(a) all the parties to the proceedings otherwise agree to that
     party being represented by an advocate and solicitor; and

       (b) the Registrar or tribunal (as the case may be) grants
            permission.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

 (4) Except as provided in subsection (2), no party to any
proceedings before the Registrar or a tribunal may be represented
by an agent, whether paid or otherwise.

 (5) Despite subsection (2), the Registrar or tribunal must, before
approving any person referred to in that subsection to represent a
party, be satisfied that the person has sufficient knowledge of the case
and sufficient authority to bind that party whom the person
represents.

Tribunal may order attendance of certain persons

 29A.—(1) If the Registrar or a tribunal is satisfied that the
attendance of an individual will assist in the resolution or disposal
of any proceedings before the Registrar or tribunal even though that
individual is not a party to those proceedings, the Registrar or tribunal
may order the individual to attend the proceedings at a time and place
specified in the order.

 (2) The order mentioned in subsection (1) may be made in respect
of any individual who is at least 18 years of age and may be made —

       (a) on the request of a party to those proceedings; or

       (b) on the Registrar’s or tribunal’s own motion.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 01/09/2026]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

61  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

Referral of cases to Community Mediation Centre, etc.

 30.—(1) Despite any written law, the Registrar or a tribunal judge
may refer a claim commenced in a tribunal to a Community
Mediation Centre or to any other person for mediation, with or
without the consent of the parties to the claim, if the Registrar or
tribunal judge is satisfied that there is a reasonable prospect that the
parties will be able to resolve the claim through mediation.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

 (1A) In considering whether there is a reasonable prospect that the
parties will be able to resolve the claim through mediation under
subsection (1), the Registrar or tribunal judge is to consider whether
the parties have previously attempted to resolve the matter through
mediation.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

 (2) The Registrar or tribunal judge may, in making a referral under
subsection (1), order all or any of the parties to the claim to attend
(personally or by a representative permitted under section 14 of the
Community Mediation Centres Act 1997 or under a prescribed
written law) before a mediator of a Community Mediation Centre or
any other person —

    (a) at a time and place to be specified in the Registrar’s or
         tribunal judge’s order; and

       (b) in a case where the mediation is to be conducted by
            electronic communication, video conferencing or other
            electronic means, at a time to be specified in the Registrar’s
            or tribunal judge’s order and according to the electronic
            means specified in that order.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with the Registrar’s or tribunal
judge’s order made under subsection (2) commits contempt of court
and action may be taken against that person under the Administration
of Justice (Protection) Act 2016.

                                                                                                           [19/2016]

Person not precluded from filing claim in court

 31. Subject to section 18, nothing in this Act is to be construed as
precluding a person from commencing proceedings for a claim that is

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 62

within the jurisdiction of a tribunal in any other court if that person
elects to institute proceedings in that other court to hear and
determine that claim.

Registration of settlement agreement as order of tribunal

 31A.—(1) Where a settlement agreement (called in this section the
agreement) has been entered into pursuant to a mediation for a dispute
which may form the basis for a claim under section 4 for which no
proceedings have been brought in a court (including a tribunal), any
party to the agreement may, with the consent of all the other parties to
the agreement, apply to a tribunal to register the agreement as an
order of the tribunal made under section 5.

 (2) The application must be made within —

       (a) the period prescribed by Rules of Court made under
            section 32 for this purpose; or

       (b) any longer period that the tribunal may allow.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), a tribunal may register an agreement
as an order of the tribunal if —

       (a) the agreement is in writing and signed by or on behalf of all
            the parties to the agreement on or after the date of
            commencement of section 26 of the Community Disputes
            Resolution (Amendment) Act 2024; and

       (b) the agreement complies with the requirements prescribed
            by Rules of Court made under section 32 including any
            requirement as to the form or content of the agreement.

 (4) The tribunal may refuse to register an agreement or a particular
term or terms of an agreement as an order of the tribunal if —

       (a) the agreement is void or voidable because of incapacity,
            fraud, misrepresentation, duress, coercion, mistake or any
            other ground for invalidating a contract;

       (b) the agreement includes subject matter that does not relate
            to a dispute which may form the basis for a claim under
            section 4;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

63  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

    (c) any term of the agreement is not capable of enforcement as
        an order of a tribunal; or

    (d) the registration of the agreement is contrary to public
         policy.

 (5) Where the agreement or part of the agreement is registered as an
order of a tribunal —

    (a) the agreement is, for the purposes of enforcement, of the
         same force and effect as if the agreement were an order
         made by the tribunal under section 5 and made on the date
         of the registration; and

    (b) proceedings may be taken on the agreement as if the
         agreement were an order made by the tribunal under
         section 5.

 (6) There is no appeal against any decision of the tribunal to register
an agreement under subsection (3) or refuse to register an agreement
under subsection (4).

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 01/09/2026]

Measures for dealing with unmeritorious or vexatious
proceedings

 31B.—(1) A tribunal may, in respect of any proceedings in the
tribunal —

       (a) make a limited civil restraint order in accordance with
            section 31C;

       (b) make an extended civil restraint order in accordance with
            section 31D; or

       (c) make a general civil restraint order in accordance with
            section 31E.

 (2) A tribunal may, if satisfied that a party is conducting any
proceedings in the tribunal in a vexatious manner, or if otherwise
satisfied that it is in the interests of justice, order that those
proceedings be stayed on such terms as the tribunal considers
appropriate.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.               Act 2015                                    64

 (3) A tribunal may, if satisfied that the filing of further documents
by a party in any proceedings in the tribunal would be vexatious or for
an improper purpose, or if otherwise satisfied that it is in the interests
of justice, order that no further documents be filed by that party in
relation to those proceedings.

 (4) A tribunal may make an order mentioned in subsection (1)(a),
(b) or (c), (2) or (3) against a party in the proceedings in the tribunal
(party A) on the tribunal’s own motion or on the application of
another party in those proceedings, but only after giving party A an
opportunity to be heard.

 (5) For the purposes of this section and sections 31C, 31D and
31E —

“action on a claim” means an action on a claim under section 4
   whether brought before, on or after the appointed date;

“application” means any application in proceedings whether
   made before, on or after the appointed date;

“appointed date” means the date of commencement of
   section 26 of the Community Disputes Resolution
   (Amendment) Act 2024;

“proceedings” means —

          (a) any action on a claim; and

          (b) any further application that may arise out of the
               action on a claim, including an application for an
               interim order, an application for a special direction,
               an application for a compliance bond and an
               application for an exclusion order.

                                                                     [Act 43 of 2024 wef 01/09/2026]

Limited civil restraint orders

 31C.—(1) A tribunal may, if satisfied that a party has made 2 or
more applications that are totally without merit or are an abuse of
process, or if otherwise satisfied that it is in the interests of justice,
make a limited civil restraint order against the party.

 (2) Where a tribunal makes a limited civil restraint order, the party
against whom the order is made —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

65  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) is restrained from making any further application in the
         proceedings in respect of which the order is made, without
         the permission of a tribunal; and

    (b) may apply to amend, vary or discharge the order, only if the
         party has the permission of a tribunal to make that
         application.

 (3) Where a party, who is subject to a limited civil restraint order,
makes an application (other than for the permission of a tribunal
under subsection (2)) in the proceedings in respect of which the order
is made without the permission of a tribunal under subsection (2), that
application is to be treated as dismissed —

    (a) without a tribunal having to make any further order; and

    (b) without the need for any other party to be heard on the
         merits of that application.

(4) A limited civil restraint order —

    (a) is limited to the particular proceedings in respect of which
         the order is made; and

    (b) remains in effect for the duration of the proceedings in
         respect of which the order is made, unless the tribunal
         orders otherwise.

                                                                        [Act 43 of 2024 wef 01/09/2026]

Extended civil restraint orders

 31D.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), a tribunal may make an
extended civil restraint order against a party if he or she has, within a
12-month period, filed 3 or more of any of the following:

       (a) an action on a claim (whether against the same or different
            respondents);

       (b) an application to a tribunal under this Act, including an
            application under section 6 or 9.

 (2) Before making the extended civil restraint order under
subsection (1), the tribunal must be satisfied that —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
                  Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.          Act 2015                                         66

(a) the claims or applications mentioned in subsection (1) are
     totally without merit, disclose no reasonable cause of
     action or are an abuse of process; or

(b) it is otherwise in the interests of justice to make the
     extended civil restraint order.

 (3) Where a tribunal makes an extended civil restraint order, the
party against whom the order is made —

(a) is restrained from commencing any action or making any
     application, in any tribunal concerning any matter
     involving, relating to, touching upon or leading to the
     proceedings in respect of which the order is made, without
     the permission of a tribunal; and

(b) may apply to amend, vary or discharge the order, only if the
     party has the permission of a tribunal to make that
     application.

 (4) Where a party, who is subject to an extended civil restraint
order, commences an action or makes an application in a tribunal
(other than for the permission of a tribunal under subsection (3)),
concerning any matter involving, relating to, touching upon or
leading to the proceedings in respect of which the order is made,
without the permission of a tribunal under subsection (3), that action
or application is to be treated as struck out or dismissed —

(a) without a tribunal having to make any further order; and

(b) without the need for any other party to be heard on the
     merits of that action or application.

 (5) An extended civil restraint order remains in effect for a period
(not exceeding 2 years) that is specified in the order.

(6) A tribunal —

(a) may extend the period for which an extended civil restraint
     order remains in effect, if the tribunal considers it
     appropriate to do so; but

(b) must not extend that period for more than 2 years on any
     given occasion.

                                                                    [Act 43 of 2024 wef 01/09/2026]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
                  Community Disputes Resolution

67                Act 2015                                   2020 Ed.

General civil restraint orders

 31E.—(1) A tribunal may, if satisfied that a party has brought
actions on a claim or made applications in a tribunal where an
extended civil restraint order would not be sufficient or appropriate,
make a general civil restraint order against the party.

 (2) Where a tribunal makes a general civil restraint order, the party
against whom the order is made —

    (a) is restrained from commencing any action or making any
         application, in any tribunal without the permission of a
         tribunal; and

    (b) may apply to amend, vary or discharge the order, only if the
         party has the permission of a tribunal to make the
         application.

 (3) Where a party, who is subject to a general civil restraint order,
commences an action or makes an application in any tribunal (other
than for the permission of a tribunal under subsection (2)), without
the permission of a tribunal under subsection (2), that action or
application is to be treated as struck out or dismissed —

    (a) without a tribunal having to make any further order; and

    (b) without the need for any other party to be heard on the
         merits of that action or application.

 (4) A general civil restraint order remains in effect for a period (not
exceeding 2 years) that is specified in the order.

(5) A tribunal —

    (a) may extend the period for which a general civil restraint
         order remains in effect, if the tribunal considers it
         appropriate to do so; but

    (b) must not extend that period for more than 2 years on any
         given occasion.

                                                                        [Act 43 of 2024 wef 01/09/2026]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
                Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.        Act 2015                                           68

                PART 4

                GENERAL

Rules of Court

 32.—(1) The Rules Committee appointed under section 80(3) of
the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969 may make Rules of Court
to —

(a) regulate and prescribe the procedure and practice to be
     followed in the tribunals and the Registry, including any
     procedure and practice to be followed in any proceedings
     or hearings (including mediation), and any matters
     incidental to or relating to any such procedure and practice;

(b) regulate the enforcement of decisions, directions and
     orders of the tribunals and the Registrar; and

          (c) prescribe such matters as are required by this Act to be
              prescribed or as are necessary for carrying out the
              provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Rules of Court may provide
for the following:

(a) what part of the business which may be transacted and the
     jurisdiction and powers which may be exercised by a
     tribunal judge may be exercised by the Registrar;

(b) the form and content of documents to be used for the
     purposes under this Act, the service of documents and the
     giving of notices;

          (c) the manner and time within which any act, application,
              claim or appeal under this Act is to be done or made;

(d) the functions, powers and duties of the tribunals, the
     Registrar and other officers including but not limited to —

          (i) the service of documents and giving of notices;

          (ii) the enlargement and abridgement of time for the
               doing of any act or taking any proceedings; and

          (iii) the conduct of proceedings;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

69  Act 2015                                                 2020 Ed.

    (e) the manner in and the time within which an application or a
        claim may be heard, and the circumstances and manner in
        which claims may be heard together;

    (f) the withdrawal and amendment of claims;

    (g) the summoning of witnesses and the payment of witnesses
         from public funds or otherwise;

    (h) the means by which particular facts may be proved, and the
         mode in which evidence of such facts may be given, in any
         proceedings or on any application in connection with or at
         any stage of any proceedings;

    (i) the commission of offences by, and the punishment of,
        persons who refuse to give evidence or obey a summons to
        witness;

    (j) the transfer of proceedings from a tribunal to a court;

    (k) to regulate the joinder of parties and to prescribe in what
        cases persons absent, but having an interest in the claim,
        are to be bound by any order made in that claim, and the
        circumstances in which orders may be made for the
        representation of absent persons by one or more parties to a
        cause or matter;

    (ka) the procedure and requirements for the registration of a
          settlement agreement as an order of a tribunal and the
          establishment of a register of registered settlement
          agreements;

                                                                          [Act 43 of 2024 wef 01/09/2026]

    (kb) the procedure and requirements for an application made
          under section 17A including the fees or costs to be imposed
          on any person mentioned in that section;

                                                                          [Act 43 of 2024 wef 01/09/2026]

      (l) the circumstances in which a decision, a direction or an
          order of the Registrar or a tribunal may be set aside and the
          procedure for setting aside such decisions, directions or
          orders;

    (m) the circumstances in which a decision, a direction or an
         order of the Registrar may be appealed against and the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
          Community Disputes Resolution

2020 Ed.  Act 2015                                                 70

          procedure for appeals from the Registrar to a tribunal and
          from a tribunal to the General Division of the High Court;

       (n) the scales of allowances, costs and fees to be taken or paid
            to any party or witness in any proceedings in a tribunal or
            before the Registrar, the fees to be charged in respect of
            anything done or any service rendered under or by virtue of
            this Act, the circumstances in which costs may be awarded
            in any proceedings in a tribunal or before the Registrar and
            for regulating any matters relating to the costs of such
            proceedings.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) The Rules of Court may, instead of providing for any matter,
refer to any provision made or to be made for that matter by practice
directions issued for the time being by the Registrar of the Supreme
Court or the Registrar of the State Courts, as the case may be.

 (4) All Rules of Court made under this section are to be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Regulations

 33.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for carrying out the
purposes and provisions of this Act and for any matter which is
required under this Act to be prescribed.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may make
regulations for all or any of the following matters:

       (a) the fees to be paid in respect of any application under this
            Act and otherwise in connection with the administration of
            this Act, and the waiver, remission or refund (in whole or
            in part) of the fees;

       (b) the manner in which fees are to be paid.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

 (3) The powers conferred by this section do not extend to any
matter for which —

       (a) regulations may be made under section 13Z; and

       (b) Rules of Court may be made under section 32.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
    Community Disputes Resolution

71                       Act 2015                            2020 Ed.

Composition of offences

 34.—(1) A person authorised by the Minister may compound any
offence under this Act (except Part 2A) that is prescribed as a
compoundable offence —

    (a) by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
         committed the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of
         the following:

    (i) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
        prescribed for the offence;

    (ii) $2,000; and

    (b) by requiring the person reasonably suspected of having
         committed the offence to do, or to refrain from doing, such
         things as may be specified in an offer of composition
         (called conditions of composition) by the authorised
         officer with the concurrence (general or specific) of the
         Public Prosecutor.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money and on full compliance with
the conditions of composition, no further proceedings are to be taken
against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) The Minister may make regulations to prescribe the offences
that may be compounded under this section.

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                               [Act 43 of 2024 wef 24/03/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
                LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

      COMMUNITY DISPUTES RESOLUTION
                          ACT 2015

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 7 of 2015 — Community Disputes Resolution Act 2015

Bill                  : 4/2015

First Reading         : 19 January 2015

Second and Third Readings : 13 March 2015

Commencement          : 1 October 2015

2. Act 19 of 2016 — Administration of Justice (Protection) Act 2016
   (Amendments made by section 38 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 23/2016

First Reading         : 11 July 2016

Second and Third Readings : 15 August 2016

Commencement          : 1 October 2017 (section 38)

3. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 23 of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 23 of the Schedule)

4. 2020 Revised Edition — Community Disputes Resolution Act 2015

Operation             : 31 December 2021

5. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021

Bill                  : 18/2021

First Reading         : 26 July 2021

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
               ii

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement   : 1 April 2022

6. Act 43 of 2024 — Community Disputes Resolution (Amendment) Act
                           2024

Bill           : 30/2024

First Reading  : 9 September 2024

Second and Third Readings : 12 November 2024

Commencement   : 24 March 2025
                     1 September 2026

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
           COMPARATIVE TABLE

COMMUNITY DISPUTES RESOLUTION
                    ACT 2015

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

2020 Ed.                            Act 7 of 2015

[Omitted as having had effect]  34

[Omitted as having had effect]  35

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2026
