THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
             EMPLOYMENT CLAIMS ACT 2016

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
                                                                   2020 Ed.

Employment Claims Act 2016

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

              MEDIATION OF EMPLOYMENT DISPUTES

3. Mediation of specified employment dispute
4. Conduct of mediation sessions
5. Representation at mediation under this Part
6. Claim referral certificate
7. Settlement of specified employment dispute

                                        PART 3

                            EMPLOYMENT CLAIMS

         Division 1 — Establishment of tribunals and appointments

 8. Establishment of tribunals
 9. Appointment and qualifications of tribunal magistrate
10. Registry
11. Registrar, deputy registrars, assistant registrars and other

         officers

                      Division 2 — Jurisdiction of tribunals

12. Jurisdiction of tribunal to hear and determine claims
13. Lodging of claim
14. No division of claim
15. Claimant may abandon part of claim
16. Other proceedings relating to claim
17. Transfer of proceedings

                                         1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                                2

          Division 3 — Proceedings before tribunal

Section   Proceedings conducted in private unless tribunal orders
   18.    otherwise
          Representation before tribunal
   19.    Hearing to be informal, etc.
   20.    Evidence
   21.    Orders of tribunal
   22.

          Division 4 — Appeals

23. Appeal to General Division of High Court
24. Appeal does not operate as stay of execution or enforcement
25. Powers of General Division of High Court on appeal
26. Finality of decision of General Division of High Court
27. Burden of proof

                                        PART 4

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

28. Restriction on contracting out
29. Disclosure of information
30. Protection from personal liability
31. Public servants
32. Amendment of Schedules
33. Rules of Court
34. Regulations
35. Tripartite guidelines on wrongful dismissal

         First Schedule — Specified contractual dispute matters
         Second Schedule — Specified statutory dispute matters
         Third Schedule — Wrongful dismissal disputes
         Fourth Schedule — Specified obligations under written law

An Act to facilitate the expeditious resolution of employment
  disputes by providing for the mediation of such disputes, for the
  constitution, jurisdiction and powers of and administration of
  justice in the Employment Claims Tribunals, and for related
  matters.

                                                                 [1 April 2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
3            Employment Claims Act 2016                     2020 Ed.

             PART 1

             PRELIMINARY

Short title

   1. This Act is the Employment Claims Act 2016.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “approved mediator” means any individual approved by the
         Commissioner as a mediator for one or more of the
         following:

              (a) a mediation under Part 2 of a specified employment
                   dispute;

              (b) a tripartite mediation;

              (c) a mediation mentioned in section 115(2A) of the
                   Employment Act 1968;

              (d) a consultation or conciliation under section 8A(5) of
                   the Retirement and Re‑employment Act 1993;

              (e) a mediation or conciliation of any dispute under any
                   other written law that the Commissioner may
                   determine, being a written law relating to
                   employment, employment terms or the relations
                   between employers and employees;

      “authorised person” means an individual appointed under
         section 3(3) of the Employment Act 1968 as an authorised
         person for the purpose of carrying out any function or duty of
         the Commissioner under this Act;

      “claim” means a claim lodged with a tribunal, and includes a
         counterclaim lodged with a tribunal;

      “claim referral certificate” means a claim referral certificate
         issued under —

              (a) section 6(2) or 7(7)(a); or

              (b) section 30H(6) of the Industrial Relations Act 1960;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                               4

“claimant” means a person who lodges a claim with a tribunal,
   and includes, for the purposes of Part 2, a person who intends
   to lodge a claim with a tribunal;

“Commissioner” means the Commissioner for Labour appointed
   under section 3(1) of the Employment Act 1968;

“contract of service” means an agreement, whether oral or
   written and whether express or implied, by which a person
   agrees to employ an individual, and that individual agrees to
   serve that person, and includes an apprenticeship agreement;

“court” means any court of competent jurisdiction in Singapore;

“employee” means an individual who has entered into and
   works under a contract of service with an employer, and
   includes —

          (a) any employee of the Government within a category,
               class or description of such employees prescribed to
               be employees for the purposes of this Act; and

          (b) for an employment dispute relating to the termination
               of a contract of service or any mediation request
               submitted or claim made after the end of a contract of
               service, the former employee who worked under that
               contract of service, even though the relationship
               between employee and employer has ended;

“employer” means any person who employs an individual under
   a contract of service, and includes —

          (a) the Government in respect of any category, class or
               description of employees of the Government
               prescribed to be employees for the purposes of this
               Act;

          (b) a statutory body;

          (c) a person duly authorised by an employer to be the
              employer’s agent or manager;

          (d) a person who owns, carries on or is responsible for
               the management of the profession, business, trade or
               work in which that individual is or was engaged; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
5  Employment Claims Act 2016                               2020 Ed.

   (e) for an employment dispute relating to the termination
       of a contract of service or any mediation request
       submitted or claim made after the end of a contract of
       service, the former employer, even though the
       relationship between employee and employer has
       ended;

   “employment assistance payment” has the meaning given by
      section 2(1) of the Retirement and Re‑employment Act 1993;

   “Industrial Arbitration Court” means an Industrial Arbitration
      Court established under section 3 of the Industrial Relations
      Act 1960;

   “mediation” includes —

   (a) the undertaking of any activity for the purpose of
        promoting the discussion and settlement of disputes;

   (b) the bringing together of the parties to any dispute for
        that purpose, either at the request of one of the parties
        to the dispute or on an order of a tribunal under this
        Act; and

   (c) the follow‑up of any matter which is the subject of
       any such discussion or settlement;

   “mediation request” means a request for a mediation under
      Part 2;

   “mediation session” means a meeting between 2 or more parties
      to a dispute for the purposes of a mediation;

   “Registrar” means the registrar, a deputy registrar or an assistant
      registrar for the tribunals;

   “Registry” means the registry established under section 10(1)
      for the tribunals;

   “respondent” means a person against whom a claim is made, or
      who is joined in the capacity of a respondent, and includes,
      for the purposes of Part 2, a person against whom a claimant
      intends to make a claim;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                               6

“salary” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
   Employment Act 1968;

“specified contractual dispute” means a dispute, relating to a
   payment of an amount of money, which arises out of or in the
   course of employment under a contract of service, about any
   matter specified in the First Schedule;

“specified employment dispute” means a specified contractual
   dispute, a specified statutory dispute or a wrongful dismissal
   dispute;

“specified statutory dispute” means a dispute, relating to a
   payment of an amount of money, about any matter specified
   in the Second Schedule;

“tribunal” means a subordinate court called an Employment
   Claims Tribunal constituted under section 4 of the State
   Courts Act 1970;

“tribunal magistrate” means a tribunal magistrate appointed
   under section 9(1)(a) or designated under section 9(5);

“tripartite guidelines on re‑employment” means the guidelines
   relating to re‑employment issued under section 11B of the
   Retirement and Re‑employment Act 1993;

“tripartite guidelines on wrongful dismissal” means the
   guidelines issued under section 35 on what constitutes
   wrongful dismissal;

“tripartite mediation” has the meaning given by section 30F of
   the Industrial Relations Act 1960;

“workman” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
   Employment Act 1968;

“wrongful dismissal dispute” means a dispute, relating to the
   dismissal of an employee, specified in the Third Schedule.

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (2) When this Act is applied to a counterclaim lodged with a
tribunal —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
7  Employment Claims Act 2016                               2020 Ed.

   (a) any reference to a claimant is a reference to a person
        making the counterclaim; and

   (b) any reference to a respondent is a reference to a person
        against whom the counterclaim is made.

 (3) Any Deputy Commissioner for Labour, Principal Assistant
Commissioner for Labour or Assistant Commissioner for Labour
appointed under section 3(1) of the Employment Act 1968 may, if
authorised by the Commissioner, carry out any function or duty, and
exercise any power, of the Commissioner under this Act.

                                    PART 2

            MEDIATION OF EMPLOYMENT DISPUTES

Mediation of specified employment dispute

 3.—(1) Before a claimant lodges a claim against a respondent, the
claimant must submit to the Commissioner a mediation request
relating to every specified employment dispute for which the claim
will be lodged.

 (2) The mediation request must be submitted to the Commissioner
in the prescribed manner by the following time:

       (a) for any specified employment dispute concerning the
            recovery, under section 65 of the Employment Act 1968, of
            salary — within the period mentioned in section 65(2A) of
            that Act or, if that period is extended under section 65(2B)
            of that Act, within the extended period;

       (b) for any re‑employment dispute described in section 8A(3)
            of the Retirement and Re‑employment Act 1993 — not
            later than 6 months after the last day of employment of the
            employee;

       (c) for any re‑employment dispute under section 8B(7) of the
            Retirement and Re‑employment Act 1993 — within the
            time determined under section 8B(8) of that Act;

       (d) for any wrongful dismissal dispute in relation to which an
            employee may lodge a claim mentioned in section 14(2) of

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                               8

          the Employment Act 1968 — not later than one month
          after the date of the dismissal of the employee;

          (e) for any wrongful dismissal dispute in relation to which a
              female employee may lodge a claim mentioned in
              section 84(2) of the Employment Act 1968 — within
              2 months after the date of the employee’s confinement;

          (f) for any specified employment dispute (not being a dispute
              mentioned in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e)) where an
              employment relationship has ended (whether due to the
              retirement of the employee, or the expiry or termination of
              the contract of service, or otherwise) — not later than
              6 months after the last day of employment of the employee;

      (g) for any other specified employment dispute — not later
           than one year after the date on which the material facts
           giving rise to the earliest specified employment dispute
           listed in the mediation request occurred.

                                                                                                         [55/2018]

(3) The mediation request —

(a) subject to paragraphs (b) and (c), must list every specified
     employment dispute in relation to which all of the
     following requirements are satisfied at the time the
     mediation request is submitted to the Commissioner:

          (i) if there is a claim for an amount relating to the
              dispute, that claim satisfies the requirements in
              section 12(2), (3) and (4);

          (ii) the material facts giving rise to the dispute occurred
               not earlier than one year before the date on which
               that request is submitted to the Commissioner in
               accordance with subsection (2);

          (iii) the dispute is not listed in an earlier mediation
                request (relating to specified employment disputes
                between the same claimant and the respondent)
                already accepted by the Commissioner and is not
                withdrawn before the date of the first mediation

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
9  Employment Claims Act 2016                               2020 Ed.

   session to be conducted pursuant to the earlier
   mediation request;

   (b) must not list a specified employment dispute if —

   (i) paragraph (a) requires an earlier mediation request
       that was submitted by the claimant and accepted by
       the Commissioner to list the dispute; and

   (ii) the requirements prescribed for this sub‑paragraph
        are not satisfied in relation to the dispute;

   (c) must not list a specified employment dispute if —

   (i) there is a claim for an amount relating to the dispute;
       and

   (ii) under section 16, that claim cannot be lodged by the
        claimant with a tribunal; and

         (d) must be accompanied by the prescribed fee for a mediation
              under this Part.

                                                                                                            [55/2018]

   (4) The Commissioner may —

   (a) refuse to accept a mediation request if —

   (i) that request does not comply with the requirements
       in subsections (2) and (3); or

   (ii) the requirement in section 12(7) cannot be satisfied
        in relation to that claim;

   (b) waive, remit or refund, wholly or in part, the fee mentioned
        in subsection (3)(d); and

   (c) pay the whole or a part of the fee mentioned in
       subsection (3)(d) to a person who is prescribed, or who
       belongs to a class of persons that is prescribed, in lieu of
       the Consolidated Fund.

 (5) Upon accepting the mediation request, the Commissioner must,
as soon as reasonably practicable, refer every specified employment
dispute listed in that request for mediation by an approved mediator.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                               10

(6) Regulations made under section 34 may —

(a) prescribe the manner in which a mediation request is to be
     submitted to the Commissioner;

(b) prescribe the persons (or classes of persons) who may
     submit a mediation request relating to a specified
     employment dispute on behalf of a claimant, the classes
     of claimants on whose behalf any such mediation request
     may be submitted, and the categories of specified
     employment disputes to which any such mediation
     request may relate, including different persons (or
     classes of persons) for different classes of claimants and
     different categories of specified employment disputes;

          (c) prescribe the requirements mentioned in
              subsection (3)(b)(ii);

(d) prescribe the fee mentioned in subsection (3)(d), including
     different fees for different classes of claimants and
     respondents and different categories of specified
     employment disputes;

          (e) prescribe any person or class of persons mentioned in
              subsection (4)(c);

          (f) provide for the review by the Commissioner of any
              decision made by the Commissioner under
              subsection (4)(a) or (b), and the time within which the
              application for the review must be made; and

(g) provide for the amendment of the list of specified
     employment disputes in a mediation request accepted by
     the Commissioner.

 (7) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, lengthen or shorten
one or more of the following periods, either absolutely or for any
class of claimants, any class of respondents and any category of
specified employment disputes:

(a) the period of 6 months mentioned in subsection (2)(f);

(b) the period of one year mentioned in subsection (2)(g);

          (c) the period of one year mentioned in subsection (3)(a)(ii).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
11  Employment Claims Act 2016                               2020 Ed.

 (8) This section does not apply to a claim if a tripartite mediation
has been conducted in an endeavour to reach a settlement in respect of
the specified employment disputes to which the claim relates.

Conduct of mediation sessions

 4.—(1) An approved mediator must conduct the first mediation
session for a specified employment dispute as soon as is reasonably
practicable after that dispute is referred under section 3(5), 7(5)(b)(ii)
or 22(8) to the approved mediator.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), an approved mediator need not conduct
any mediation session for a specified employment dispute, if the
approved mediator is satisfied that there is no reasonable prospect of
settling the dispute through mediation.

 (3) Each mediation session must be held in private.

 (4) Despite subsection (3) —

       (a) the Commissioner may refer all of the specified
            employment disputes mentioned in subsection (5)(a), (b)
            or (c) for mediation by the same approved mediator; and

       (b) that approved mediator may conduct the mediation
            sessions for all of the specified employment disputes
            mentioned in subsection (5)(a), (b) or (c) together at the
            same time and place.

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (5) Subsection (4) applies where —

       (a) 2 or more claimants have submitted to the Commissioner
            mediation requests for the mediation under this Part of
            specified employment disputes with the same respondent,
            and the Commissioner is satisfied that all of those disputes
            are similar in nature;

       (b) 2 claimants intend to lodge claims against each other, and
            each claimant has submitted to the Commissioner a
            mediation request for the mediation under this Part of
            that claimant’s specified employment disputes with the
            other claimant; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                               12

       (c) the same claimant has submitted to the Commissioner 2 or
            more mediation requests for the mediation under this Part
            of specified employment disputes (each concerning the
            recovery, under section 65 of the Employment Act 1968, of
            the same salary) with different respondents.

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (6) Regulations made under section 34 may provide for any matter
relating to the conduct of a mediation session.

Representation at mediation under this Part

 5.—(1) Except as provided in subsections (2) and (3), a party to a
mediation under this Part —

       (a) must act in person;

       (b) cannot be represented by an advocate and solicitor; and

       (c) cannot be represented by an agent, whether paid or
            otherwise.

 (2) A party other than an individual may be represented —

       (a) if the party is the Government, by a public officer;

       (b) if the party is a body corporate, by an officer, or a full‑time
            employee, of the body corporate;

       (c) if the party is a partnership, by a partner, or a full‑time
            employee, of the partnership;

       (d) if the party is an unincorporated association, by a member
            of the governing body, or a full‑time employee, of the
            unincorporated association; or

       (e) by any other individual prescribed by regulations made
            under section 34.

 (3) A party who is an individual may be represented by any other
individual prescribed by regulations made under section 34.

 (4) For the purposes of subsections (2)(e) and (3), the regulations
made under section 34 may prescribe different individuals for
different parties and different circumstances.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
13  Employment Claims Act 2016                               2020 Ed.

(5) In this section —

    “body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership as
       defined in section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
       Act 2005;

    “officer”, in relation to a body corporate, means a director,
       partner, member of the committee of management, chief
       executive, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the
       body corporate.

Claim referral certificate

 6.—(1) This section applies where —

       (a) a claimant submits to the Commissioner a mediation
            request; and

       (b) the Commissioner refers any specified employment
            dispute listed in that request to an approved mediator.

 (2) The approved mediator to whom is referred any specified
employment dispute in a mediation request must issue to the claimant
a claim referral certificate in respect of every unresolved specified
employment dispute listed in the mediation request, if —

       (a) the respondent is given reasonable notice of, but does not
            attend, the mediation for that dispute;

       (b) no settlement is reached at the end of the mediation in
            relation to one or more of the specified employment
            disputes listed in the mediation request; or

       (c) the approved mediator is satisfied that there is no
            reasonable prospect of settling through mediation the
            specified employment dispute.

 (3) Despite subsection (2), if a claimant submits a mediation
request but, without reasonable excuse, fails to attend any mediation
session to which that request relates, the approved mediator may —

       (a) discontinue the mediation; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                               14

(b) refuse to issue to the claimant a claim referral certificate in
     respect of all or any of the unresolved specified
     employment disputes listed in that request.

 (4) In this section, a specified employment dispute listed in a
mediation request is unresolved if the dispute —

(a) is not settled; and

(b) is not withdrawn from the list of specified employment
     disputes in the mediation request.

Settlement of specified employment dispute

 7.—(1) Where a specified employment dispute is settled at a
mediation under this Part, or at a tripartite mediation conducted by an
approved mediator —

       (a) the parties to the settlement must enter into a settlement
            agreement in the form prescribed by Rules of Court made
            under section 33;

       (b) the total amount payable to a party under the settlement
            agreement, in respect of every specified contractual
            dispute (if any) and every specified statutory dispute (if
            any) settled at the mediation, must not exceed the
            prescribed claim limit in section 12(7)(a) that is
            applicable to that party;

       (c) the total amount payable to a party under the settlement
            agreement, in respect of every wrongful dismissal dispute
            (if any) settled at the mediation, must not exceed the
            prescribed claim limit in section 12(7)(b) that is applicable
            to that party; and

       (d) the settlement agreement must be signed by or on behalf of
            each party.

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (2) A District Court may register a settlement agreement on the
application of any party to the settlement agreement, but may refuse
to register if the application is not made within the period prescribed
by Rules of Court made under section 33 for this purpose.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
15  Employment Claims Act 2016                               2020 Ed.

 (3) Where the settlement agreement is registered in a District
Court —

    (a) the settlement agreement is, for the purposes of execution
         or enforcement, of the same force and effect as if the
         settlement agreement had been a judgment given in the
         District Court and entered on the date of the registration;

                                                                        [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

    (b) proceedings may be taken on the settlement agreement as if
         the settlement agreement had been a judgment given in the
         District Court; and

    (c) any amount (payable to a person) for which the settlement
        agreement is registered carries interest as if that amount
        was a judgment debt.

 (4) Where a settlement agreement is registered in a District Court,
any party to the settlement agreement may, within the period
prescribed by Rules of Court made under section 33, apply to a
District Court to set aside the registration of the settlement
agreement.

 (5) A District Court hearing an application under subsection (4)
may, if any condition in subsection (6) is satisfied —

    (a) set aside the registration of the settlement agreement; and

    (b) do either or both of the following:

    (i) set aside the settlement agreement;

    (ii) refer any specified employment dispute purportedly
         resolved by the settlement agreement for mediation
         under this Part (if the settlement agreement arose
         from a mediation under this Part) or for tripartite
         mediation to be conducted by an approved mediator
         (if the settlement agreement arose from a tripartite
         mediation conducted by an approved mediator), with
         or without the consent of the parties to the settlement
         agreement.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                               16

(6) For the purposes of subsection (5), the conditions are as follows:

(a) the settlement agreement is void or voidable because of
     incapacity, fraud, misrepresentation, duress, coercion,
     mistake or any other ground for invalidating a contract;

(b) the settlement agreement includes subject matter that does
     not relate to a specified employment dispute;

          (c) any term of the settlement agreement is not capable of
              enforcement as an order made by a District Court;

(d) the registration of the settlement agreement is contrary to
     public policy.

 (7) Where a District Court sets aside under subsection (5)(b)(i) a
settlement agreement, and refers under subsection (5)(b)(ii) any
specified employment dispute purportedly resolved by the settlement
agreement for mediation under this Part, the following apply:

(a) the approved mediator must issue to the claimant a claim
     referral certificate in respect of every unresolved specified
     employment dispute referred by the District Court, if —

          (i) the respondent is given reasonable notice of, but does
              not attend, the mediation;

          (ii) no settlement is reached at the end of the mediation
               in relation to one or more of the specified
               employment disputes referred by the District
               Court; or

          (iii) the approved mediator is satisfied that there is no
                reasonable prospect of settling through mediation
                one or more of the specified employment disputes
                referred by the District Court;

(b) despite paragraph (a), if the claimant, without reasonable
     excuse, fails to attend any mediation session, the approved
     mediator may —

          (i) discontinue the mediation; and

          (ii) refuse to issue to the claimant a claim referral
               certificate in respect of all or any of the unresolved

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
17  Employment Claims Act 2016                               2020 Ed.

    specified employment disputes referred by the
    District Court.

 (8) In subsection (7), a specified employment dispute is unresolved
if the dispute is not settled and is not withdrawn by the claimant.

 (9) To avoid doubt, where a District Court sets aside under
subsection (5)(b)(i) a settlement agreement, and refers under
subsection (5)(b)(ii) any specified employment dispute purportedly
resolved by the settlement agreement for tripartite mediation to be
conducted by an approved mediator, section 30H(3) to (9) of the
Industrial Relations Act 1960 applies to that dispute as it applies to a
dispute of which the Commissioner is notified under section 30H(2)
of that Act.

                                    PART 3

                        EMPLOYMENT CLAIMS

     Division 1 — Establishment of tribunals and appointments

Establishment of tribunals

 8. The President may, under section 4 of the State Courts Act 1970,
constitute one or more Employment Claims Tribunals.

Appointment and qualifications of tribunal magistrate

 9.—(1) A tribunal is presided over by —

       (a) a tribunal magistrate appointed by the President on the
            recommendation of the Chief Justice; or

       (b) a tribunal magistrate designated under subsection (5).

 (2) An individual is eligible for appointment under
subsection (1)(a) as a tribunal magistrate if the individual is a
qualified person as defined in section 2(1) of the Legal Profession
Act 1966.

 (3) An individual appointed under subsection (1)(a) as a tribunal
magistrate holds office for a term specified in the individual’s
instrument of appointment, and may be re‑appointed.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                               18

 (4) Despite subsection (3), the President may, on the
recommendation of the Chief Justice, at any time revoke the
appointment under subsection (1)(a) of a tribunal magistrate.

 (5) The Presiding Judge of the State Courts may designate any
District Judge as a tribunal magistrate.

 (6) Any individual appointed under subsection (1)(a) or designated
under subsection (5) as a tribunal magistrate may, although the period
of the individual’s appointment or designation has expired, or the
individual’s appointment or designation has been revoked, sit as a
tribunal magistrate for the purpose of giving judgment or otherwise in
relation to any case heard by the individual as a tribunal magistrate.

Registry
 10.—(1) A registry is established for the tribunals.
 (2) The Registry keeps all records of the tribunals.

Registrar, deputy registrars, assistant registrars and other
officers

 11.—(1) The registrar of the State Courts is the registrar for the
tribunals.

 (2) The Chief Justice may appoint deputy registrars, assistant
registrars and other officers for the tribunals to assist the registrar for
the tribunals in the administration of this Part and the Registry.

 (3) To the extent authorised by this Act or by Rules of Court made
under section 33, the jurisdiction and powers of a tribunal may be
exercised by the registrar for the tribunals.

 (4) All the powers and duties of the registrar for the tribunals may
be exercised and performed by a deputy registrar or an assistant
registrar for the tribunals.

                  Division 2 — Jurisdiction of tribunals

Jurisdiction of tribunal to hear and determine claims

 12.—(1) Subject to this Act, a tribunal has jurisdiction to hear and
determine any claim in relation to which all applicable requirements

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
19  Employment Claims Act 2016                               2020 Ed.

set out in subsections (2) to (7) are satisfied, regardless whether the
dispute giving rise to the claim arose before, on or after 1 April 2017.

(2) The claim must be made —

    (a) by an employee who is prescribed or belongs to a
         prescribed class of employees (or a person entitled under
         any written law to receive an amount claimed (if any) in
         place of the employee) against the employer of the
         employee;

    (b) by an employee who is prescribed or belongs to a
         prescribed class of employees (or a person entitled under
         any written law to receive the amount claimed in place of
         the employee) against a person liable under section 65 of
         the Employment Act 1968 for the employee’s salary; or

    (c) by an employer who is prescribed or belongs to a
        prescribed class of employers (or a person entitled under
        any written law to receive the amount claimed in place of
        the employer) against an employee of the employer for an
        amount relating to a specified employment dispute
        concerning —

    (i) any matter specified in item 17 of the First Schedule
        or item 14 or 16 of the Second Schedule; or

            (ii) any other matter specified in the First or Second
                  Schedule that is prescribed for the purposes of this
                  sub‑paragraph.

                                                                                                         [55/2018]

(3) The claim must be for either or both of the following:

    (a) one or more amounts alleged to be payable by the
         respondent to the claimant;

       (b) reinstatement, by the respondent, of the claimant in the
            claimant’s former employment, in a case where the claim is
            lodged in respect of a wrongful dismissal dispute.

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (4) Each amount alleged to be payable under the claim must relate
to a specified employment dispute.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                               20

 (5) The claim must be supported by a claim referral certificate
issued in respect of every specified employment dispute for which the
claim is lodged.

 (6) The claim must be lodged with the tribunal within the
prescribed period after the date of issue of the claim referral
certificate supporting the claim.

 (7) The total amount alleged to be payable under the claim must
satisfy the following conditions:

(a) the total amount alleged to be payable under the claim, in
     respect of every specified contractual dispute (if any) and
     every specified statutory dispute (if any) for which the
     claim is lodged, must not exceed the prescribed claim limit
     applicable to the claimant for the purposes of this
     paragraph;

      (b) the total amount alleged to be payable under the claim, in
           respect of every wrongful dismissal dispute (if any) for
           which the claim is lodged, must not exceed the prescribed
           claim limit applicable to the claimant for the purposes of
           this paragraph.

                                                                                                         [55/2018]

(8) Regulations made under section 34 may —

(a) prescribe different employees or classes of employees for
     different categories of claims or different categories of
     specified employment disputes;

(b) prescribe different employers or classes of employers for
     different categories of claims or different categories of
     specified employment disputes;

          (c) prescribe any matter mentioned in subsection (2)(c)(ii);

(d) prescribe the period in subsection (6), including different
     periods for different categories of claims and different
     circumstances; and

          (e) prescribe the claim limits in subsection (7)(a) and (b),
              including different claim limits for different classes of
              claimants and different circumstances.

                                                                                                          [55/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
21                Employment Claims Act 2016                 2020 Ed.

Lodging of claim

 13.—(1) A claim is lodged with a tribunal by filing the claim with
the Registry.

(2) Every claim —

    (a) must be filed in the form and manner —

    (i) prescribed by Rules of Court made under section 33;
        or

    (ii) specified in practice directions issued by the registrar
         of the State Courts; and

    (b) must be accompanied by —

    (i) a claim referral certificate issued in respect of every
        specified employment dispute for which the claim is
        lodged;

    (ii) any other documents that may be —

    (A) prescribed by Rules of Court made under
         section 33; or

    (B) specified in practice directions issued by the
         registrar of the State Courts; and

    (iii) the court fee (if any) prescribed by Rules of Court
          made under section 33.

No division of claim

 14. A claim cannot be divided and pursued in separate proceedings
before a tribunal if the only reason for doing so is to bring the total
amount alleged to be payable in each of those proceedings within the
jurisdiction of a tribunal.

Claimant may abandon part of claim

 15.—(1) Where —

       (a) the total amount alleged to be payable under a claim, in
            respect of every specified contractual dispute (if any) and
            every specified statutory dispute (if any) for which the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                               22

          claim is lodged, exceeds the prescribed claim limit in
          section 12(7)(a) that is applicable to the claimant; or

(b) the total amount alleged to be payable under a claim, in
     respect of every wrongful dismissal dispute (if any) for
     which the claim is lodged, exceeds the prescribed claim
     limit in section 12(7)(b) that is applicable to the claimant,

the claimant may abandon the excess amount.                        [55/2018]
 (2) If the claimant abandons the excess amount —

(a) the requirement in section 12(7) is deemed to be satisfied
     in relation to the claim;

(b) the tribunal has jurisdiction to hear and determine the
     claim; and

       (c) an order of the tribunal in relation to the claim fully
            discharges all demands in respect of the claim.

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (3) Where the claimant has abandoned the excess amount, the
claimant cannot recover that amount in a tribunal or any other court.

Other proceedings relating to claim

 16.—(1) A claim relating to a specified employment dispute cannot
be lodged with a tribunal if —

       (a) any proceedings relating to that claim are pending in, or
            have been heard and determined by, any other court or an
            Industrial Arbitration Court; or

       (b) a claim lodged under section 119 of the Employment
            Act 1968 in respect of that dispute is pending, or the
            Commissioner has inquired into and decided that dispute
            under section 115 of that Act.

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (2) Despite any other written law, where a claim relating to a
specified employment dispute is lodged with a tribunal, no
proceedings relating to that claim can be commenced in any other
court or an Industrial Arbitration Court by either party against the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
23  Employment Claims Act 2016                               2020 Ed.

other, unless the claim is withdrawn, discontinued or dismissed for
lack of jurisdiction.

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (3) Where an employee is dismissed, the employee cannot lodge
with a tribunal a claim for any amount relating to a specified
employment dispute concerning a matter specified in item 17 of the
First Schedule, or item 13 or 15 of the Second Schedule, that arises
from that dismissal, if —

    (a) the employee —

    (i) has made representations in writing under
        section 35(3) of the Industrial Relations Act 1960
        to the Minister mentioned in that provision; or

    (ii) has made representations in writing under
         section 8(1) of the Retirement and Re‑employment
         Act 1993 to the Minister mentioned in that provision;
         and

    (b) either of the following applies:

    (i) the employee does not withdraw those
        representations;

              (ii) the Minister concerned makes a decision on those
                   representations.

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (4) Where an employee is dismissed, and the employee lodges with
a tribunal a claim for any amount relating to a specified employment
dispute concerning a matter specified in item 17 of the First Schedule,
or item 13 or 15 of the Second Schedule, that arises from that
dismissal —

    (a) the claim is deemed to be discontinued, if the employee —

    (i) makes representations in writing under section 35(3)
        of the Industrial Relations Act 1960 to the Minister
        mentioned in that provision; or

    (ii) makes representations in writing under section 8(1)
         of the Retirement and Re‑employment Act 1993 to
         the Minister mentioned in that provision; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                               24

       (b) the claim is deemed to be discontinued with effect from the
            date on which the employee makes those representations.

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (5) Where an employee is dismissed, the employee cannot lodge
with a tribunal a claim relating to a wrongful dismissal dispute, if —

(a) the employee has made representations in writing under
     section 35(3) of the Industrial Relations Act 1960 to the
     Minister mentioned in that provision; and

(b) either of the following applies:

          (i) the employee does not withdraw those
              representations;

              (ii) the Minister concerned makes a decision on those
                   representations.

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (6) Where an employee is dismissed, and the employee lodges with
a tribunal a claim relating to a wrongful dismissal dispute —

(a) the claim is deemed to be discontinued, if the employee
     makes representations in writing under section 35(3) of the
     Industrial Relations Act 1960 to the Minister mentioned in
     that provision; and

       (b) the claim is deemed to be discontinued with effect from the
            date on which the employee makes those representations.

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (7) Where an employee has made representations in writing under
section 8B(1) of the Retirement and Re‑employment Act 1993 to the
Minister mentioned in that provision, the employee cannot lodge with
a tribunal a claim for employment assistance payment, unless —

(a) that Minister allows, under section 8B(7) of that Act, the
     employee to submit to the Commissioner a mediation
     request in respect of the specified employment dispute for
     which the employee’s claim for employment assistance
     payment will be lodged; and

(b) a claim referral certificate is issued in respect of that
     dispute.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
25  Employment Claims Act 2016                               2020 Ed.

 (8) Where, after an employee has lodged with a tribunal a claim for
employment assistance payment, the employee makes
representations in writing under section 8B(1) of the Retirement
and Re‑employment Act 1993 to the Minister mentioned in that
provision —

    (a) the claim is stayed until that Minister decides whether to
         allow, under section 8B(7) of that Act, the employee to
         submit to the Commissioner a mediation request in respect
         of the specified employment dispute for which the
         employee’s claim for employment assistance payment
         has been lodged;

    (b) if that Minister decides not to allow the employee to submit
         to the Commissioner a mediation request in respect of the
         specified employment dispute for which the employee’s
         claim for employment assistance payment has been
         lodged, the claim is deemed to be discontinued with
         effect from the date of that Minister’s decision; and

    (c) if that Minister decides to allow the employee to submit to
        the Commissioner a mediation request in respect of the
        specified employment dispute for which the employee’s
        claim for employment assistance payment has been
        lodged, the employee may proceed with the claim.

 (9) Where an employee has lodged with a tribunal a claim for
employment assistance payment, the employer of the employee
cannot defend the claim on the ground that the employee does not
satisfy the re‑employment eligibility criteria set out in section 7(1) of
the Retirement and Re‑employment Act 1993, if the employer did not
raise this defence during the mediation under Part 2 of the specified
employment dispute concerning the employment assistance payment.

Transfer of proceedings

 17.—(1) Where it appears to an appropriate court, on the
application of a party to any proceedings before a tribunal, that
there is sufficient reason for those proceedings, or a counterclaim in
those proceedings, to be dealt with by that court, that court may order

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                               26

those proceedings or that counterclaim (as the case may be) to be
transferred to that court.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) must be made within the
time and manner prescribed by Rules of Court made under section 33.

 (3) An order under subsection (1) may be made on any terms that
the appropriate court thinks fit.

 (4) Where the appropriate court orders under subsection (1) that a
counterclaim in proceedings before a tribunal be transferred to that
court, and the tribunal determines the claim in those proceedings by
ordering the respondent to pay money to the claimant, unless that
court at any time otherwise orders, execution or enforcement on the
tribunal’s order is stayed until the proceedings on the counterclaim
are concluded.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (5) In this section, “appropriate court” means the General Division
of the High Court, a District Court or a Magistrate’s Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

               Division 3 — Proceedings before tribunal

Proceedings conducted in private unless tribunal orders
otherwise

 18.—(1) Subject to subsections (2), (3), (4) and (5), all proceedings
before a tribunal are to be conducted in private.

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (2) A tribunal may, on its own initiative or on the application of any
party to the proceedings, and in the manner prescribed by Rules of
Court made under section 33, do either or both of the following:

       (a) allow one or more individuals to assist in resolving the
            claim amicably through mediation or conciliation;

       (b) allow one or more individuals of skill and experience in the
            matter to which the proceedings relate to sit with the
            tribunal and act as assessors.

 (3) A tribunal may permit an officer appointed under section 3(2) of
the Employment Act 1968 to participate in any proceedings before a
tribunal by doing one or more of the following:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
27  Employment Claims Act 2016                               2020 Ed.

    (a) giving evidence in the proceedings;

    (b) producing any document, record or thing that is relevant to
         the proceedings;

    (c) making submissions in the proceedings.

                                                             [55/2018]

 (4) A tribunal may permit one or more of the following to observe
the hearing of a claim:

    (a) any prescribed individual;

    (b) any individual belonging to a prescribed class of
         individuals;

    (c) any other individual that the tribunal deems fit.

 (5) Regulations made under section 34 may prescribe different
individuals or classes of individuals for different categories of claims
for the purposes of subsection (4).

 (6) To avoid doubt, subsection (1) does not prevent a tribunal from
hearing 2 or more claims together, if it appears to the tribunal that
doing so is convenient and does not prejudice any party to any of
those claims.

Representation before tribunal

 19.—(1) Except as provided in subsections (2) and (3), a party to
proceedings before a tribunal —

       (a) must act in person;

       (b) cannot be represented by an advocate and solicitor; and

       (c) cannot be represented by an agent, whether paid or
            otherwise.

 (2) A party other than an individual may be represented —

       (a) if the party is the Government, by a public officer;

       (b) if the party is a body corporate, by an officer, or a full‑time
            employee, of the body corporate;

       (c) if the party is a partnership, by a partner, or a full‑time
            employee, of the partnership;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                               28

(d) if the party is an unincorporated association, by a member
     of the governing body, or a full‑time employee, of the
     unincorporated association; or

          (e) by any other individual prescribed by regulations made
              under section 34.

 (3) A party who is an individual may be represented by any other
individual by regulations made under section 34.

 (4) For the purposes of subsections (2)(e) and (3), the regulations
made under section 34 may prescribe different individuals for
different parties and different circumstances.

(5) In this section —

“body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership as
   defined in section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
   Act 2005;

“officer”, in relation to a body corporate, means a director,
   partner, member of the committee of management, chief
   executive, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the
   body corporate.

Hearing to be informal, etc.

 20.—(1) Proceedings before a tribunal are to be conducted in an
informal manner.

 (2) A tribunal, when dealing with any claim, is to adopt a judge‑led
approach, that is to say, the tribunal —

       (a) is to identify the relevant issues in the claim; and

       (b) is to ensure that the relevant evidence is adduced by the
            parties to the proceedings before the tribunal.

 (3) In adopting a judge‑led approach, a tribunal may, at any time, on
its own initiative or on the application of any party to the proceedings
before the tribunal, direct any party or parties to those proceedings to
appear before the tribunal, for the tribunal to make such order or give
such direction as the tribunal thinks fit, for the just, expeditious and
economical disposal of the claim.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
29  Employment Claims Act 2016                               2020 Ed.

 (4) A tribunal may, on its own initiative or at the request of any
party, summon any person to do either or both of the following:

    (a) give evidence in any proceedings before a tribunal;

    (b) produce any document, record or thing which is relevant in
         any proceedings before a tribunal.

 (5) A tribunal may inquire into any matter which the tribunal
considers relevant to a claim, whether or not the matter is raised by a
party to the claim.

 (6) When deciding any claim for employment assistance payment,
or calculating the amount of an employment assistance payment, a
tribunal may take into account the tripartite guidelines on
re‑employment.

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (7) When deciding any claim involving a wrongful dismissal
dispute, a tribunal —

    (a) is to have regard to the tripartite guidelines on wrongful
         dismissal; and

       (b) if any compensation is claimed, is to calculate the amount
            of that compensation in accordance with any regulations
            made under section 34(1).

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (8) To avoid doubt, if any party to any proceedings before a
tribunal, without reasonable excuse, fails to attend those proceedings,
a tribunal may hear the claim and make its decision in the absence of
that party, even if the interests of that party may be prejudicially
affected by the decision of the tribunal.

Evidence

 21.—(1) A tribunal —

       (a) is not bound by the rules of evidence in the conduct of any
            proceedings; and

       (b) may inform itself on any matter in any manner that the
            tribunal thinks fit.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                               30

 (2) A tribunal may draw any inferences that the tribunal thinks fit
from a party’s failure to comply with any obligation of that party
under any written law specified in the Fourth Schedule, including
(but not limited to) an inference that any evidence that is not available
on account of that party’s failure to comply with that obligation
would, if produced, have been unfavourable to that party.

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), evidence tendered to a tribunal need
not be given on oath or affirmation.

(4) A tribunal may —

(a) require the whole or any part of any evidence tendered to a
     tribunal, whether orally or in writing, to be given on oath or
     affirmation; and

(b) for that purpose, administer an oath or affirmation.

 (5) A tribunal may, on its own initiative, seek such other evidence,
and make such other investigations and inquiries, as the tribunal
thinks fit.

 (6) All evidence and information obtained by a tribunal under
subsection (5) for any proceedings must be disclosed to every party to
those proceedings.

 (7) A tribunal may require any written evidence given in
proceedings before a tribunal to be verified by statutory declaration.

 (8) A tribunal need not keep a record of the evidence given in any
proceedings before the tribunal, but must make —

(a) a summary of the facts and issues in dispute, as determined
     by the tribunal; and

(b) notes of the proceedings.

Orders of tribunal
 22.—(1) A tribunal may determine a claim within the tribunal’s

jurisdiction by making one or more of the following orders:
       (a) an order requiring a party to pay money to another party;
       (b) an order dismissing the whole or any part of the claim;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
31  Employment Claims Act 2016                               2020 Ed.

    (c) an order requiring a party to pay costs to another party;

       (d) an order requiring an employer to reinstate an employee in
            the employee’s former employment.

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (2) In deciding whether to make an order under subsection (1)(c), a
tribunal may take into account any of the following matters:

    (a) whether the claim was frivolous or vexatious;

    (b) whether a party without reasonable excuse failed to attend
         a mediation under Part 2, or a tripartite mediation
         (conducted by an approved mediator), of a specified
         employment dispute for which the claim is lodged;

    (c) whether any party without reasonable excuse failed to
        attend any proceedings before the tribunal which that party
        was required to attend.

 (3) A tribunal’s order under subsection (1) is subject to any
conditions that the tribunal thinks fit to impose.

 (4) The total amount of money that a tribunal orders to be paid to a
party under subsection (1)(a), in respect of every specified
contractual dispute (if any) and every specified statutory dispute (if
any) for which a claim is lodged, must not exceed the prescribed
claim limit in section 12(7)(a) that is applicable to the party.

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (5) The total amount of money that a tribunal orders to be paid to a
party under subsection (1)(a), in respect of every wrongful dismissal
dispute (if any) for which a claim is lodged, must not exceed the
prescribed claim limit in section 12(7)(b) that is applicable to the
party.

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (6) To avoid doubt —

    (a) any amount of money that a tribunal orders to be paid
         under subsection (1)(a) does not include any costs that a
         tribunal orders to be paid under subsection (1)(c); and

    (b) where a tribunal orders a party to pay an amount of money
         under subsection (1)(a) and costs under subsection (1)(c),
         any money paid by the party is to be applied first to the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                               32

          payment of the amount under subsection (1)(a), and then to
          the payment of the costs under subsection (1)(c).

 (7) Where a tribunal does not have jurisdiction to determine a claim
or any part of a claim, that claim or part (as the case may be) must be
dismissed for lack of jurisdiction.

 (8) A tribunal may, instead of determining a claim by making an
order under subsection (1), refer any specified employment dispute
for which the claim is lodged for mediation under Part 2 (if the claim
arose from a mediation under Part 2) or for tripartite mediation to be
conducted by an approved mediator (if the claim arose from a
tripartite mediation conducted by an approved mediator), with or
without the consent of the parties.

 (9) A tribunal may, when making a referral under subsection (8),
order all or any of the parties to personally attend the mediation under
Part 2 or the tripartite mediation (as the case may be).

 (10) A tribunal may correct an order made by the tribunal within
14 days after the date on which the order is made, or correct a
statement of the tribunal’s grounds for making the order within
14 days after the date on which the statement is issued by the tribunal,
to the extent necessary to rectify any of the following things:

(a) a clerical mistake;

(b) an error arising from an accidental slip or omission;

          (c) a material miscalculation of figures, or a material mistake
              in the description of any person, thing or matter, referred to
              in the order or statement (as the case may be);

(d) a defect of form.

 (11) The tribunal may make the correction in subsection (10) on its
own initiative or on the application of a party to the proceedings
before the tribunal.

 (12) Every order made by a tribunal under subsection (1) may be
enforced in the same manner as a judgment given or an order made by
a District Court.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
33  Employment Claims Act 2016                               2020 Ed.

    Division 4 — Appeals

Appeal to General Division of High Court

 23.—(1) Any party to proceedings before a tribunal may appeal to
the General Division of the High Court against an order made by the
tribunal under section 22(1) —

    (a) on any ground involving a question of law; or

       (b) on the ground that the claim was outside the jurisdiction of
            the tribunal.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) An appeal lies to the General Division of the High Court under
this section only if permission to appeal is given by a District Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (3) Where the only reason for appealing against an order made by a
tribunal under section 22(1) is to rectify anything mentioned in
section 22(10)(a) to (d), a District Court may, instead of giving
permission to appeal —

    (a) extend the time under section 22(10) for the correction of
         the order; and

      (b) remit the matter to a tribunal for the correction of the order
           in accordance with section 22(10) and (11) (except to the
           extent that the time under section 22(10) may have been
           extended).

                                                                             [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

(4) Each of the following is final and is not subject to any appeal:

    (a) any order of a District Court giving or refusing permission
         under subsection (2);

                                                                        [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

    (b) any order of a District Court extending or refusing to
         extend under subsection (3)(a) the time under
         section 22(10) for the correction of an order made by a
         tribunal;

    (c) any order of a District Court remitting or refusing to remit
        under subsection (3)(b) a matter to a tribunal.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                               34

Appeal does not operate as stay of execution or enforcement

 24.—(1) An appeal against an order made by a tribunal under
section 22(1) does not operate as a stay of execution or enforcement
of that order, unless a District Court or the General Division of the
High Court orders otherwise.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (2) A District Court or the General Division of the High Court may
direct that a stay of execution or enforcement (of an order made by a
tribunal) be subject to any conditions that the District Court or the
General Division of the High Court thinks fit to impose, including
conditions as to costs, payment into a District Court or the General
Division of the High Court, or the giving of security.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (3) Any order or direction of a District Court on an application for a
stay of execution or enforcement (of an order made by a tribunal) is
final and is not subject to any appeal.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (4) The General Division of the High Court may order a stay of
execution or enforcement of an order made by a tribunal, or give a
direction under subsection (2), only if —

(a) a District Court has given under section 23(2) permission
     to appeal against the order made by the tribunal; and

                                                                    [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

(b) no application was made to any District Court for a stay of
     execution or enforcement of the order made by the
     tribunal.

                                                                                                 [40/2019]

                                                                    [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Powers of General Division of High Court on appeal
 25.—(1) On an appeal against an order made by a tribunal, the

General Division of the High Court may —
       (a) dismiss the appeal;
       (b) allow the appeal and set aside or vary the order; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
35  Employment Claims Act 2016                               2020 Ed.

       (c) remit the matter to the tribunal for reconsideration, or order
            a rehearing of the matter by a different tribunal, with any
            directions that the General Division of the High Court
            thinks fit to give.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) The General Division of the High Court may also make on the
appeal any other orders (including an order as to costs and expenses)
that the General Division of the High Court thinks fit, but must not —

    (a) reverse or vary any determination made by a tribunal on a
         question of fact; or

    (b) receive further evidence.

                                                             [40/2019]

 (3) When deciding an appeal against an order made by a tribunal on
a claim for employment assistance payment, or on the calculation of
the amount of an employment assistance payment, the General
Division of the High Court may take into account the tripartite
guidelines on re-employment.

                                                                                                [55/2018; 40/2019]

 (4) When deciding an appeal against an order made by a tribunal on
a claim involving a wrongful dismissal dispute, the General Division
of the High Court —

    (a) is to have regard to the tripartite guidelines on wrongful
         dismissal; and

    (b) if any compensation is claimed, is to calculate the amount
         of that compensation in accordance with any regulations
         made under section 34(1).

                                                                                         [55/2018; 40/2019]

Finality of decision of General Division of High Court

 26. Any judgment, order or direction of the General Division of the
High Court on any of the following matters is final:

       (a) an appeal against an order made by a tribunal;

       (b) an application for a stay of execution or enforcement of an
            order made by a tribunal.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]
                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.         Employment Claims Act 2016                        36

Burden of proof

 27.—(1) In any proceedings under this Act before a tribunal or the
General Division of the High Court, a person who makes any of the
following allegations bears the burden of proving that allegation:

(a) an allegation that the person is not the employer or
     employee of the claimant;

(b) an allegation that the person is not a person who has a duty
     under any of the following Acts to do or abstain from doing
     any thing:

          (i) the Child Development Co‑Savings Act 2001;

          (ii) the Employment Act 1968;

             (iii) the Retirement and Re‑employment Act 1993.

                                                                                                [55/2018; 40/2019]

 (2) In any proceedings under this Act before a tribunal or the
General Division of the High Court, the following apply:

(a) where an employee is dismissed without notice by an
     employer under section 14(1) of the Employment
     Act 1968, and the employee lodges a claim mentioned in
     section 14(2) of that Act against the employer — the
     employer bears the burden of proving the allegation that
     the employee was dismissed with just cause or excuse;

(b) where an employee is dismissed with notice by an
     employer, and the notice of dismissal is or purports to be
     given on the ground that there has been poor performance
     or misconduct by the employee — the employer bears the
     burden of proving that ground for giving the notice of
     dismissal;

          (c) where a notice of dismissal is given to a female employee
              by an employer in the circumstances mentioned in
              section 84(1)(a), (b) or (c) of the Employment Act 1968,
              and the female employee lodges a claim mentioned in
              section 84(2) of that Act against the employer — the
              employer bears the burden of proving the allegation that
              the female employee was dismissed with sufficient cause;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
37  Employment Claims Act 2016                               2020 Ed.

    (d) where a notice of dismissal is given to a female employee
         mentioned in section 12(1) of the Child Development
         Co‑Savings Act 2001 by an employer in the circumstances
         mentioned in section 84(1)(a), (b) or (c) of the
         Employment Act 1968 (as applied to the female
         employee), and the female employee lodges a claim
         mentioned in section 84(2) of the Employment Act 1968
         (as applied to the female employee) against the
         employer — the employer bears the burden of proving
         the allegation that the female employee was dismissed with
         sufficient cause.

                                                                                         [55/2018; 40/2019]

                                    PART 4

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Restriction on contracting out

 28. Any provision in any agreement (whether made before, on or
after 1 April 2017) is void to the extent that it purports —

       (a) to exclude or limit the jurisdiction of a tribunal; or

       (b) to prevent a person from —

               (i) submitting a mediation request; or

              (ii) making a claim, an application or an appeal under
                   this Act.

Disclosure of information

 29.—(1) Despite sections 4 and 18, the Commissioner, an approved
mediator, a tribunal magistrate or a Registrar may disclose
information relating to a mediation request, a mediation under
Part 2, a claim or any proceedings before a tribunal, if the
disclosure —

       (a) is necessary for or in connection with the administration or
            execution of this Act;

       (b) is necessary for providing financial or social assistance to
            the claimant or the respondent;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                               38

          (c) is made to assist a law enforcement agency in the
              investigation of any offence under any written law;

(d) is made to a public agency for the purpose of policy
     formulation or review;

          (e) is made to a public agency, and is necessary in the public
              interest; or

          (f) is made for any other purpose that may be prescribed by
              any regulations made under section 34.

 (2) Despite section 18, a tribunal magistrate or a Registrar may
publish information relating to an order or a decision of a tribunal.

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (3) In this section —

“law enforcement agency” means any authority or person
   charged with the duty of investigating offences or charging
   offenders under any written law;

“public agency” means —

          (a) the Government, including any ministry, department,
               agency or Organ of State; or

          (b) any statutory body or tribunal that is prescribed for
               the purposes of this definition by any regulations
               made under section 34.

Protection from personal liability

 30.—(1) A tribunal magistrate has and enjoys the same protection
that a Magistrate has and enjoys under the State Courts Act 1970.

 (2) A Registrar, when exercising the jurisdiction and powers of a
tribunal, has and enjoys the same protection as a tribunal magistrate.

 (3) No liability shall lie personally against the Commissioner, an
individual authorised to carry out any function or duty of the
Commissioner under this Act, or an approved mediator, who, acting
in good faith and with reasonable care, does or omits to do anything in
the execution or purported execution of this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
39               Employment Claims Act 2016                  2020 Ed.

Public servants

 31.—(1) Every approved mediator, when carrying out the functions
and duties of an approved mediator, is deemed to be a public servant
for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

 (2) Every authorised person, when carrying out any function or
duty of the Commissioner under this Act, is deemed to be a public
servant for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

Amendment of Schedules

 32.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend any of
the Schedules.

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (2) The Minister may, in an order made under subsection (1), make
any provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on the
enactment of the order that the Minister considers necessary or
expedient.

Rules of Court

 33.—(1) The Rules Committee appointed under section 80(3) of
the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969 may make Rules of
Court —

       (a) to regulate and prescribe —

               (i) the procedure and practice to be followed —

                    (A) in an application under section 7(2) to a
                          District Court for a settlement agreement
                          mentioned in section 7(1) to be registered in
                          that Court;

                     (B) in an application under section 7(4) to a
                          District Court to set aside the registration in a
                          District Court of a settlement agreement
                          mentioned in section 7(1);

                     (C) in the tribunals and the Registry;

                    (D) in an application under section 17(1) to the
                          General Division of the High Court, a District

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                               40

          Court or a Magistrate’s Court for any
          proceedings before a tribunal, or a
          counterclaim in those proceedings, to be
          transferred to the General Division of the
          High Court, a District Court or a Magistrate’s
          Court (as the case may be);

          (E) in an appeal to the General Division of the
               High Court under section 23 against an order
               made by a tribunal under section 22(1);

                (F) in an application to a District Court for
                      permission under section 23(2) to appeal to
                      the General Division of the High Court against
                      an order made by a tribunal under
                      section 22(1); or

                                                                    [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

                (G) in an application to the General Division of the
                      High Court or a District Court for a stay of
                      execution or enforcement under section 24 of
                      an order made by a tribunal under
                      section 22(1); and

                                                                    [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

          (ii) any matters incidental to or relating to any such
               procedure and practice;

(b) to provide for the enforcement of orders of the tribunals;

          (c) to provide for fees and costs for the proceedings mentioned
              in paragraph (a); and

       (d) to prescribe any matters required by this Act to be
            prescribed by Rules of Court made under this section.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Rules of Court made under
this section may provide for the following matters:

(a) the part of the business and the jurisdiction and powers of a
     tribunal magistrate which may be transacted and exercised
     by a Registrar;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
41  Employment Claims Act 2016                               2020 Ed.

    (b) the form and content of documents to be used, the sealing
         of documents, the service of documents, and the giving of
         notices, for proceedings in a tribunal or court;

    (c) the manner in which and time within which any act,
        application to a tribunal, claim or appeal under this Act is
        to be done, lodged or made;

    (d) the functions, powers and duties of the tribunals, a
         Registrar and other officers of the tribunals or the
         Registry, including in relation to —

    (i) the service of documents and giving of notices;

    (ii) the enlargement or abridgement of time for the doing
         of any act or for taking any proceedings; and

    (iii) the conduct of proceedings;

    (e) the manner in which, and the time within which, an
        application to a tribunal or a claim may be heard, and the
        circumstances and manner in which claims may be heard
        together;

    (f) the withdrawal and amendment of claims;

    (g) the summoning of witnesses and the payment of witnesses
         from public funds or otherwise;

    (h) the means by which particular facts may be proved, and the
         mode in which evidence of those facts may be given, in any
         proceedings or on any application to a tribunal in
         connection with or at any stage of any proceedings
         before a tribunal;

    (i) the transfer of proceedings from a tribunal to a court;

    (j) the joinder of parties in proceedings before a tribunal;

    (k) the cases in which a person absent, but having an interest in
        a claim, is to be bound by an order of a tribunal or a
        Registrar made in relation to that claim;

    (l) the circumstances in which an order of a tribunal or a
        Registrar may be made for the representation of an absent
        person by a party to the proceedings before a tribunal;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                               42

(m) the circumstances in which any decision, direction or order
     of a tribunal or a Registrar may be set aside, and the
     procedure for setting aside any such decision, direction or
     order;

(n) the circumstances in which any decision, direction or order
     of a Registrar may be appealed against, and the procedure
     for appeals from a Registrar to a tribunal and from a
     tribunal to the General Division of the High Court;

(o) the scales of allowances, costs and fees to be taken, or paid
     to any party or witness, in any proceedings before a
     tribunal or a Registrar;

(p) the fees to be charged for anything done by a tribunal or a
     Registrar, or for any service rendered by the Registry,
     under or by virtue of this Act;

(q) the waiver, refund or remission, whether wholly or in part,
     of any fee provided for in those Rules of Court;

       (r) the circumstances (in addition to those mentioned in
            section 22(2)) in which costs may be awarded in any
            proceedings before a tribunal or a Registrar, and any other
            matters relating to the costs of those proceedings.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) The Rules of Court made under this section may, instead of
providing for any matter, refer to any provision made or to be made
for that matter by practice directions issued for the time being by the
registrar of the State Courts.

 (4) All Rules of Court made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Regulations
 34.—(1) The Minister may make regulations —
       (a) for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this Act;
       (b) to prescribe how compensation is to be computed in a
            claim relating to a wrongful dismissal dispute;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
43  Employment Claims Act 2016                               2020 Ed.

    (c) to provide for the fees to be charged for anything done or
        any service rendered by the Commissioner or an approved
        mediator under or by virtue of this Act;

    (d) to provide for the waiver, refund or remission, whether
         wholly or in part, of any fee provided for in those
         regulations;

    (e) to exempt any person or class of persons from all or any of
        the provisions of this Act (except Part 3 and section 33),
        either generally or in a particular case, and subject to any
        conditions that may be prescribed;

    (f) to exclude any specified employment dispute or category
        of specified employment disputes, and any claim or
        category of claims, from all or any of the provisions of
        this Act, either generally or in a particular case;

    (g) to provide for the service of documents, and the giving of
         notices, required or allowed under this Act, except
         documents and notices for proceedings in a tribunal or
         court; and

       (h) to prescribe any matters required by this Act to be
            prescribed by regulations made under this section.

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (2) The powers conferred by this section do not extend to any
matter for which Rules of Court may be made under section 33.

Tripartite guidelines on wrongful dismissal

 35.—(1) The Minister may issue guidelines on what constitutes
wrongful dismissal in the form of tripartite guidelines.

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

 (2) Upon the publication of those guidelines in the Gazette, regard
may be had to those guidelines for the purposes of sections 20(7) and
25(4).

                                                                             [34A

                                                                                                           [55/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                                 44

          FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                 Sections 2(1), 12(2)(c), 16(3) and (4)
                                                                                                  and 32(1)

          SPECIFIED CONTRACTUAL DISPUTE MATTERS

1. Allowance (however described in the contract of service)
2. Annual wage supplement
3. Bonus payment
4. Commission

5. Deduction from salary
6. Employment assistance payment
7. Incentive payment (however described in the contract of service)
8. Medical benefit
9. Overtime payment

10. Pay for extra work
11. Pay for public holiday or paid leave
12. Pay for work on public holiday
13. Pay for work on rest day

14. Payment in lieu of unconsumed leave
15. Reimbursement for expenses incurred while carrying out official duties
16. Salary
17. Salary in lieu of notice of termination
18. Termination benefit (including retrenchment benefit or retirement benefit)

                           SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                          Sections 2(1), 12(2)(c), 16(3) and (4)
                                                                                                            and 32(1)

                  SPECIFIED STATUTORY DISPUTE MATTERS

Matters under Child Development Co‑Savings Act 2001

  1. Female employee’s entitlement to paid maternity leave, and payment for
      working during benefit period before her confinement, under section 9(1),
      (1A), (1B) and (2) of the Child Development Co‑Savings Act 2001

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
45  Employment Claims Act 2016                               2020 Ed.

    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

2. Female employee’s entitlement to paid adoption leave under
   section 12AA(1), (2) and (4) of the Child Development Co‑Savings
   Act 2001

3. Employee’s entitlement to paid childcare leave under section 12B(1) and (9)
   of the Child Development Co‑Savings Act 2001

4. Employee’s entitlement to paid extended childcare leave under
   section 12B(1A) and (9) of the Child Development Co‑Savings Act 2001

4A. Employee’s entitlement to paid shared parental leave under section 12DA(1)
     and (2) of the Child Development Co‑Savings Act 2001

                                                                                   [S 228/2025 wef 01/04/2025]

  5. Male employee’s entitlement to paid shared parental leave under
     section 12E(1) and (2) of the Child Development Co‑Savings Act 2001

6. Male employee’s entitlement to paid paternity leave under section 12H(1)
   and (2) of the Child Development Co‑Savings Act 2001

Matters under Child Development Co‑Savings (Part‑Time Employees)
Regulations 2008

7. Female part‑time employee’s entitlement to paid maternity leave under
   regulation 4(1) and (2) of the Child Development Co‑Savings (Part‑Time
   Employees) Regulations 2008

8. Part‑time employee’s entitlement to paid childcare leave under
   regulation 5(1), (2) and (3) of the Child Development Co‑Savings
   (Part‑Time Employees) Regulations 2008

9. Part‑time employee’s entitlement to paid extended childcare leave under
   regulation 5A(1) and (2) of the Child Development Co‑Savings (Part‑Time
   Employees) Regulations 2008

10. Female part‑time employee’s entitlement to paid adoption leave under
     regulation 7(1) and (2) of the Child Development Co‑Savings (Part‑Time
     Employees) Regulations 2008

10A. Part-time employee’s entitlement to paid shared parental leave under
       regulation 7A(1) and (2) of the Child Development Co‑Savings (Part‑Time
       Employees) Regulations 2008

                                                                                     [S 228/2025 wef 01/04/2025]

  11. Male part‑time employee’s entitlement to paid shared parental leave under
       regulation 8(1) and (2) of the Child Development Co‑Savings (Part‑Time
       Employees) Regulations 2008

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                               46

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

12. Male part‑time employee’s entitlement to paid paternity leave under
     regulation 9(1) and (2) of the Child Development Co‑Savings (Part‑Time
     Employees) Regulations 2008

Matters under Employment Act 1968

13. Employee’s entitlement to payment under section 11(1) of the Employment
     Act 1968, if the employer terminates the contract of service without notice or
     without waiting for the expiry of that notice

14. Employer’s entitlement to payment under section 11(1) of the Employment
     Act 1968, if the employee terminates the contract of service without notice
     or without waiting for the expiry of that notice

15. Employee’s entitlement to payment under section 16 of the Employment
     Act 1968, if the employer breaks, or is deemed under section 13(1) of that
     Act to have broken, the contract of service

16. Employer’s entitlement to payment under section 16 of the Employment
     Act 1968 if the employee breaks, or is deemed under section 13(2) of that
     Act to have broken, the contract of service

17. Employee’s entitlement to payment of salary in accordance with section 21,
     22 or 23 of the Employment Act 1968

18. Employee’s entitlement to recover from the employer any deduction, made
     by the employer from the salary of the employee, that is prohibited under
     section 26 of the Employment Act 1968

19. Employee’s entitlement to payment under section 37(2) of the Employment
     Act 1968 for working, at the employee’s own request, for the employer on a
     rest day

20. Employee’s entitlement to payment under section 37(3) of the Employment
     Act 1968 for working, at the employer’s request, on a rest day

21. Employee’s entitlement to payment under section 38(4) of the Employment
     Act 1968 for extra work carried out at the employer’s request (overtime pay)

22. Entitlement of employee, to whom section 40 of the Employment Act 1968
     applies, to payment under section 40(4) of that Act for extra work carried out
     at the employer’s request

23. Employee’s entitlement to paid annual leave under section 88A(1), (2), (6)
     and (7) of the Employment Act 1968

24. Entitlement, under section 57 of the Employment Act 1968 but subject to
     section 63 of that Act, of employee who is a workman to recover salary that
     has not been actually paid to the employee in legal tender

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
47  Employment Claims Act 2016                               2020 Ed.

    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

25. Entitlement, under section 65 of the Employment Act 1968, of employee
     who is a workman to recover salary from a principal, contractor or
     subcontractor mentioned in that section

26. Female employee’s entitlement to paid maternity leave, and payment for
     working during benefit period before her confinement, under section 76(1),
     (1A) and (3) of the Employment Act 1968

27. Entitlement of person nominated by female employee under section 80(4) of
     the Employment Act 1968, or personal representative of female employee, to
     receive payment from the employer under section 79(1) or (2) of that Act, on
     the death of the female employee

28. Employee’s entitlement to paid childcare leave under section 87A(1) and (5)
     of the Employment Act 1968

29. Employee’s entitlement to paid holiday (on a public holiday) under
     section 88(1) of the Employment Act 1968

30. Employee’s entitlement under section 88(4) of the Employment Act 1968 to
     be paid an extra day’s salary, if required by the employer to work on a public
     holiday

31. Employee’s entitlement under section 88(4A) of the Employment Act 1968
     to either be paid an extra day’s salary or given time off in lieu, if required by
     the employer to work on a public holiday

32. Employee’s entitlement to paid sick leave under section 89(1) and (2) of the
     Employment Act 1968, and to have the fees of any medical examination
     under section 89(1) or (2) of that Act borne by the employer

Matters under Employment (Part‑Time Employees) Regulations

33. Part‑time employee’s entitlement to payment under regulation 4(1) of the
     Employment (Part‑Time Employees) Regulations for working, at the
     employee’s own request, for the employer on a rest day

34. Part‑time employee’s entitlement to payment under regulation 4(2) of the
     Employment (Part‑Time Employees) Regulations for working, at the
     employer’s request, on a rest day

35. Part‑time employee’s entitlement to payment under regulation 5(1) of the
     Employment (Part‑Time Employees) Regulations for extra work (overtime
     pay)

36. Part‑time employee’s entitlement to paid holiday (on a public holiday) under
     regulation 6(1) of the Employment (Part‑Time Employees) Regulations

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
2020 Ed.  Employment Claims Act 2016                               48

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

37. Part‑time employee’s entitlement under regulation 6(2) of the Employment
     (Part‑Time Employees) Regulations to be paid a sum at the part-time
     employee’s basic rate of pay for one day’s work, if required by the employer
     to work on a public holiday

38. Part‑time employee’s entitlement under regulation 6(2A) of the Employment
     (Part‑Time Employees) Regulations to either be paid a sum at the part‑time
     employee’s basic rate of pay for one day’s work or given time off in lieu, if
     required by the employer to work on a public holiday

39. Part‑time employee’s entitlement to allowance under regulation 6(4) of the
     Employment (Part‑Time Employees) Regulations, if the part‑time employee
     agrees to relinquish the part‑time employee’s entitlement to paid holidays
     (on public holidays)

40. Part‑time employee’s entitlement to paid annual leave under regulation 7(1)
     and (2) of the Employment (Part‑Time Employees) Regulations

41. Part‑time employee’s entitlement to allowance under regulation 7(3) of the
     Employment (Part‑Time Employees) Regulations, if the part‑time employee
     agrees to relinquish the part‑time employee’s entitlement to paid annual
     leave

42. Part‑time employee’s entitlement to paid sick leave under regulation 8(1)
     and (2) of the Employment (Part‑Time Employees) Regulations

43. Part‑time employee’s entitlement to paid childcare leave under
     regulation 8A(1) and (2) of the Employment (Part‑Time Employees)
     Regulations

44. Female part‑time employee’s entitlement to paid maternity leave under
     regulation 9(1) and (2) of the Employment (Part‑Time Employees)
     Regulations

Matters under Retirement and Re‑employment Act 1993

45. Employee’s entitlement to employment assistance payment under
     section 7C(1) of the Retirement and Re‑employment Act 1993

                                                                                          [55/2018; S 153/2017]

                          THIRD SCHEDULE

                                                                                       Sections 2(1) and 32(1)

                     WRONGFUL DISMISSAL DISPUTES

1. Any dispute, in relation to which an employee may lodge a claim mentioned
   in section 14(2) of the Employment Act 1968, over whether the employee
   has been dismissed without just cause or excuse by an employer

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
49  Employment Claims Act 2016                               2020 Ed.

    THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

2. Any dispute, in relation to which a female employee may lodge a claim
   mentioned in section 84(2) of the Employment Act 1968, over whether a
   notice of dismissal given by an employer to the female employee in the
   circumstances mentioned in section 84(1)(a), (b) or (c) of that Act was or
   was not given for sufficient cause

3. Any dispute, in relation to which a female employee mentioned in
   section 12(1) of the Child Development Co‑Savings Act 2001 may lodge
   a claim mentioned in section 84(2) of the Employment Act 1968 (as applied
   to the female employee), over whether a notice of dismissal given by an
   employer to the female employee in the circumstances mentioned in
   section 84(1)(a), (b) or (c) of the Employment Act 1968 (as applied to the
   female employee) was or was not given for sufficient cause

                                                                                                        [55/2018]

                        FOURTH SCHEDULE

                                                                                      Sections 21(2) and 32(1)

           SPECIFIED OBLIGATIONS UNDER WRITTEN LAW

1. An employer’s obligations under sections 95, 95A and 96 of the
   Employment Act 1968

2. An employer’s obligations under paragraph 6A of Part IV of the Fourth
   Schedule to the Employment of Foreign Manpower (Work Passes)
   Regulations 2012

3. An employer’s obligations under paragraph 5 of Part II of the Fifth Schedule
   to the Employment of Foreign Manpower (Work Passes) Regulations 2012

                                                                                                        [55/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
                  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
           EMPLOYMENT CLAIMS ACT 2016

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 21 of 2016 — Employment Claims Act 2016

Bill                  : 20/2016

First Reading         : 11 July 2016

Second and Third Readings : 16 August 2016

Commencement          : 1 April 2017

2. G.N. No. S 153/2017 — Employment Claims Act 2016 (Amendment of
                                   Second Schedule) Order 2017

Commencement          : 1 April 2017

3. Act 55 of 2018 — Employment (Amendment) Act 2018
   (Amendments made by section 26 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 47/2018

First Reading         : 2 October 2018

Second Reading        : 20 November 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 20 November 2018

Third Reading         : 20 November 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2019 (section 26)

4. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 47 of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 47 of the Schedule)

5. 2020 Revised Edition — Employment Claims Act 2016

Operation             : 31 December 2021

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
                      ii

6. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021

Bill                  : 18/2021

First Reading         : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement          : 1 April 2022

7. G.N. No. S 228/2025 — Employment Claims Act 2016 (Amendment of
                                   Second Schedule) Order 2025

Date of commencement  : 1 April 2025

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
                COMPARATIVE TABLE
         EMPLOYMENT CLAIMS ACT 2016

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

         2020 Ed.                Act 21 of 2016
                   16—(4A)
16—(5)
   (6)                (4B)
   (7)                (5)
   (8)                (6)
   (9)                (7)
                   18—(2A)
18—(3)                (3)
   (4)                (4)
   (5)                (5)
   (6)             20—(6A)
                      (7)
20—(7)             21—(1A)
   (8)                (2)
                      (3)
21—(2)                (4)
   (3)                (5)
   (4)                (6)
   (5)                (7)
   (6)             22—(4A)
   (7)                (5)
   (8)                (6)
                      (7)
22—(5)                (8)
   (6)                (9)
   (7)
   (8)
   (9)
   (10)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
                 2020 Ed.       ii
   (11)
   (12)                                         Act 21 of 2016
29—(2)                               (10)
   (3)                               (11)
35                               29—(1A)
[Omitted as having had effect]       (2)
[Omitted as having had effect]   34A
[Omitted as having had effect]   35
[Omitted as having had effect]   36
[Omitted as having had effect]   37
[Omitted as having had effect]   38
[Omitted as having had effect]   39
[Omitted as having had effect]   40
[Omitted as spent]               41
                                 42
                                 43

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
