THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
         ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
                   MANAGEMENT ACT 1999

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

  Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
                                                                  2020 Ed.

Environmental Protection and
    Management Act 1999

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

                               ADMINISTRATION

3. Appointment of Director-General and authorised officers
4. Public servants
5. Protection from personal liability

                                       PART 3

                     USE OF SCHEDULED PREMISES

6. Written permission for use of scheduled premises
7. Power of Director-General to attach conditions to written

       permission
8. Permit for certain works on scheduled premises
9. Change of owner or occupier

                                        PART 4

                          AIR POLLUTION CONTROL

10. Occupier to maintain and operate air pollution control
         equipment

11. Prohibition of dark smoke from chimney
12. Control of air impurities
13. Power of Director-General to require work on any premises
14. Power to prohibit use of combustible materials, fuel burning

         equipment or industrial plants in designated areas

                                                      1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                                 2

          PART 5

          WATER POLLUTION CONTROL

Section   Written permission for discharge of trade effluent, oil, chemical,
   15.    sewage or other polluting matters
   16.    Plant for treatment of trade effluent
   17.    Penalties for discharging toxic substances or hazardous
   18.    substances into inland waters
          Power of Director-General to require the removal and cleaning
   19.    up of toxic substance or trade effluent, oil, chemical, sewage,
          hazardous substance or other polluting matters
          Power of Director-General to require measures to be taken to
          prevent water pollution due to storage or transportation of toxic
          substances or any other polluting matters

                                        PART 6
                        LAND POLLUTION CONTROL
20. Pollution of land

                                        PART 7

                  HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES CONTROL

21. Application of this Part to hazardous substances
22. General prohibition with respect to importation, manufacture

         and sale of hazardous substances
23. Prohibitions and regulations with respect to importation,

         manufacture and sale of hazardous substances
24. Storage, use and dealing of hazardous substances
25. Power of Director-General to require removal of hazardous

         substances from premises
26. Power to require owner or occupier of hazardous installations to

         carry out impact analysis studies
27. Penalty for offences involving hazardous substances

                                        PART 8

                                 NOISE CONTROL

28. Control of noise from construction of building and other works
28A. Surveillance system
29. Control of noise from work place

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
   Environmental Protection and

3  Management Act 1999                                        2020 Ed.

Section
   30. Director-General to have regard to certain provisions

                                           PART 9
                                         LICENCES

   31. Single licence
   32. General provisions on licences

                                          PART 9A

                    POLLUTION CONTROL REQUIREMENTS
                             FOR CONTROLLED WORKS

   33. Interpretation of this Part
   33A. Purpose of this Part
   33B. No controlled works without clearance certificate
   33C. Controlled works exempt from section 33B
   33D. Application for clearance certificate
   33E. Preliminary certification of building designs
   33F. Additional requirements for new ventures under Energy

            Conservation Act 2012
   33G. New clearance certificate required for amended plans of

            controlled works
   33H. Offence to deviate from plans certified in clearance certificate
   33I. Compliance certificate required upon completion of controlled

            works
   33J. Temporary compliance certificate
   33K. Consequences of providing false or misleading information, etc.
   33L. Appeals under this Part
   33M. Designation of persons to hear appeals
   33N. Use of electronic service for making applications, etc.
   34. Registration, appointment and duties of registered inspectors

                                          PART 10

          ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION CONTROL MEASURES

   35. Principal contractor to prevent pollution from construction site
   36. Study on pollution control
   37. Self-monitoring and submission of results
   38. Regulations for mandatory insurance
   39. Power to prohibit work and processes in certain circumstances
   40. Advisory and technical committees

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        4

          PART 10A

          GREENHOUSE GAS CONTROL

          Division 1 — Preliminary

Section
   40A. Interpretation of this Part

          Division 2 — Measures relating to GHG goods

          Subdivision (1) — Restrictions on supplies of
                            regulated goods

40B. Regulated goods
40C. Restriction on importers and manufacturers
40D. Restrictions on supplies and imports of regulated goods

          Subdivision (2) — Registration of suppliers and
                              regulated goods

40E.      Registration of suppliers and regulated goods
40F.      Duration and renewal of registration
40G.      Withdrawal or revocation of registration
40H.      Register of registered suppliers and regulated goods
40I.      Maintenance of records

          Subdivision (3) — Appeals

40J. Appeal against decisions made under sections 40E, 40F, 40G
         and 40U

          Division 3 — Measures relating to regulated GHG works

          Subdivision (1) — Restrictions relating to
                      regulated GHG works

40K. Regulated GHG works
40L. Restrictions relating to regulated GHG works

          Subdivision (2) — Registration of GHG entities

40M. Registration of GHG entities
40N. Withdrawal or revocation of registration
40O. Register of registered GHG entities

          Subdivision (3) — Obligations of registered GHG entities
                                and competent persons

40P. Obligations of registered GHG entity
40Q. Obligations of competent person

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
         Environmental Protection and

5        Management Act 1999                                        2020 Ed.

         Subdivision (4) — Appeals

Section
   40R. Appeal against decisions made under sections 40M and 40N

         Division 4 — Surveys, etc.

   40S. Environment impact surveys and investigations

         Division 5 — Enforcement of this Part

   40T.  Monitoring powers for purposes of this Part
   40U.  Power to give directions
   40V.  Power to require samples
   40W.  Power to require tests or examinations
   40X.  Data not to be falsified, etc.
   40Y.  Power of Director-General to waive requirements

                                           PART 11

                                     ENFORCEMENT

   41. Default in compliance with notice or order
   42. Appeal against notice or order
   43. Power to demand names and addresses
   44. Powers of Director-General to examine and secure attendance
   44A. Power to obtain information
   45. Powers of arrest
   46. Director-General may act in cases of emergency
   47. Power of entry
   48. Power to enter on land adjacent to works
   49. Penalty for obstructing Director-General in his or her duty
   50. Powers of search and seizure
   50A. Power to examine motor vehicles

                                          PART 12

                       COMPENSATION, DAMAGES, FEES,
                                COSTS AND EXPENSES

   51. Compensation, damages, fees, costs and expenses to be
            determined by Magistrate’s Court or District Court

   51A. Fees, etc., payable to Agency
   52. Occupier may execute work where owner defaults in execution

            of work
   53. Recovery of costs and expenses payable by owners
   54. Recovery of costs and expenses by instalments

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                             6

Section   Proceedings for recovery of arrears
          Attachment
   55.    Application of proceeds of sale
   56.    Title acquired by purchaser at sale by Director-General
   57.    Costs of proceedings for recovery of arrears
   58.    Power to stop sale
   59.    Application to Court
   60.    Security for payment of arrears
   61.    Liability of transferor who has not given notice
   62.    Proceedings where occupier opposes execution of work
   63.
   64.

          PART 13

          MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

65.       Notices, orders and other documents may be given by authorised
          officer
66.       Service of documents, etc.
67.       General penalties
68.       Furnishing of deposits
69.       Inaccuracies in document
69A.      Evidence
70.       Evidence of analyst
71.       Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
72.       Composition of offences
73.       Jurisdiction of court
74.       Saving of prosecutions under other laws
75.       Exemption
76.       Amendment of Schedules
77.       Regulations
78.       Transitional provisions
          First Schedule — Scheduled premises
          Second Schedule — Control of hazardous substances
          Third Schedule — Subject matters of Regulations

An Act to consolidate the laws relating to environmental pollution
  control, to provide for the protection and management of the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
   Environmental Protection and

7  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

   environment and resource conservation, and for purposes
   connected therewith.

                                                                                                           [26/2007]

                                                                  [1 April 1999]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Environmental Protection and Management Act
1999.

                                                                                                           [26/2007]

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Agency” means the National Environment Agency established
         under the National Environment Agency Act 2002;

      “air impurities” includes smoke, cinders, solid particles of any
         kind, gases, fumes, mists, odours and radioactive substances;

      “air pollution” means the emission into the air of any air
         impurity;

      “air pollution control equipment” includes —

              (a) any apparatus for separating any air impurities from
                   the gas or liquid medium in which they are carried;

              (b) any automatic device used for securing the more
                   efficient operation of any fuel burning equipment;

              (c) any device to indicate or record air pollution or give
                   warning of excessive air pollution; and

              (d) any other device used for the purposes of preventing
                   or limiting air pollution;

      “analysis” includes the taking of a sample or any test,
         measurement, calculation or examination made for the
         purpose of determining the characteristics of any matter or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        8

          substance or the effects of any discharge, emission or deposit
          of trade effluent, air impurity or hazardous substance;

“analyst” means an analyst appointed or approved by the
   Director‑General;

“authorised officer” means any person appointed to be an
   authorised officer under section 3(2);

“auxiliary officer” means an individual who is appointed as an
   auxiliary officer under section 16A(1) of the National
   Environment Agency Act 2002;

“building” includes any house, hut, shed or roofed enclosure,
   whether used for the purpose of human habitation or
   otherwise;

“building works” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
   Building Control Act 1989;

                                                                       [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

“chimney” includes a structure or opening of any kind from or
   through which air impurities may be emitted, and any
   reference to a chimney of or used in connection with any
   premises includes a reference to a chimney which serves the
   whole or a part of the premises though structurally separate
   from the premises;

“construction site” means any premises on or in which the
   construction, alteration or demolition of any building or
   structure is carried on and includes —

          (a) all the land within the vicinity of the work place
               which are owned by the person for whom the
               construction works are being carried out and to
               which the principal contractor has control of access;
               and

          (b) any canteen, sleeping quarters, office and other
               structures or buildings erected on the construction
               site;

“container” means —

          (a) any vessel, can, drum, barrel or other receptacle; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
   Environmental Protection and

9  Management Act 1999                              2020 Ed.

   (b) where such vessel, can, drum, barrel or other
        receptacle is contained in another container or is
        wholly enveloped in a covering or coverings of
        whatever nature — the outermost container or
        covering, as the case may be,

   but does not include the carrying tank of a road tanker, a tank
   container or a freight container;

   “dark smoke” means smoke which is ascertained by any method
      that may be prescribed to be dark smoke;

   “day” means a period of 24 hours from midnight;

   “Director-General” means the Director‑General of
      Environmental Protection appointed under section 3(1);

   “drain” includes any watercourse or river;

   “export”, with its grammatical variations and cognate
      expressions, means to take or cause to be taken out of
      Singapore by land, water or air and includes the placing of
      any substances, plant, equipment, machinery or any products
      in a vessel, conveyance or aircraft for the purposes of the
      substances, plant, equipment, machinery or any products
      being taken out of Singapore by water or air; but does not
      include the taking out of Singapore by water or air of any
      substances, plant, equipment, machinery or any products on
      the same vessel or aircraft on which they were brought into
      Singapore unless, after being brought into Singapore, the
      substances, plant, equipment, machinery or any products
      have been landed or transhipped within Singapore;

   “fuel burning equipment” means any furnace, boiler, fire place,
      oven, retort, incinerator, internal combustion engine, vessel
      or chimney, or any other apparatus, device, mechanism or
      structure used or to be used in connection with the burning of
      any combustible material in, or in relation to, any industrial
      plant;

   “hazardous substance” means any of the substances specified in
      the first column of Part I of the Second Schedule but does not
      include —

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        10

          (a) the substance when contained in any substance,
               preparation or product specified in the second
               column of that Part corresponding to that
               substance; or

          (b) the substance when contained in any substance,
               preparation or product specified in Part II of that
               Schedule;

“import”, with its grammatical variations and cognate
   expressions, means to bring or cause to be brought into
   Singapore by land, water or air from any place which is
   outside Singapore but does not include the bringing into
   Singapore by water or air of any substances, plant,
   equipment, machinery or any products which it is proved
   to be intended to be taken out of Singapore on the same vessel
   or aircraft on which they were brought into Singapore
   without any landing or transhipment within Singapore;

“industrial or trade premises” means premises used for any
   industrial or trade purposes or premises on which matter is
   burnt in connection with any industrial or trade process, and
   includes all scheduled premises and construction sites;

“industrial plant” means any plant or equipment used for the
   generation of power, or for any industrial use, or for the
   operation of vessels, aircraft, locomotives, cranes, internal
   combustion engines or other machines using any combustible
   material for their operation;

“industrial plant works” means any of the following works:

          (a) the erection or extension of an industrial plant;

          (b) the alteration or addition of an industrial plant;

          (c) the erection or extension of a plant for the treatment
              of trade effluent or toxic substances;

          (d) the provision, extension or alteration of any
               equipment to control pollution from an industrial
               plant;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

11  Management Act 1999                                   2020 Ed.

    “inland waters” means any river, stream, reservoir, lake or pond,
       whether natural or artificial;

    “licensee” means any person licensed under this Act;

    “motor vehicle” has the meaning given by the Road Traffic
       Act 1961;

    “occupier”, in relation to —

    (a) any premises — means the person in occupation of
         the premises or having the charge, management or
         control thereof; and

    (b) any part of any premises, different parts of which are
         occupied by different persons — means the person in
         occupation or having the charge, management or
         control of that part;

    “owner”, in relation to —

    (a) any premises — includes the person for the time
         being receiving the rent of the premises, whether on
         the person’s own account or as agent or trustee or as
         receiver, or who would receive the rent if the
         premises were let to a tenant, and the person whose
         name is entered in the Valuation List prepared under
         section 10 of the Property Tax Act 1960;

    (b) any premises where building works are carried out —
         includes the developer and the building contractor;

    (c) the common property of any subdivided building —
         includes the management corporation established
         under the Building (Strata Management) Act 2004
         having control of the building, or the person
         receiving any rent or charge for the maintenance of
         that common property; and

                                                               [Act 12 of 2020 wef 01/10/2025]

                                                               [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

    (d) the limited common property of any subdivided
         building — includes the subsidiary management
         corporation established under the Building (Strata

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        12

             Management) Act 2004 having control of the limited
             common property, or the person receiving any rent or
             charge for the maintenance of that limited common
             property;

                                                                       [Act 12 of 2020 wef 01/10/2025]

                                                                       [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

“pollution of the environment” means pollution of the
   environment due to the release (into any environmental
   medium) from any process of substances which are capable
   of causing harm to human or any other living organisms
   supported by the environment;

“practicable” means reasonably practicable having regard,
   among other things, to local conditions and circumstances
   and to the current state of technical knowledge, and “best
   practicable means” includes the provision and the efficient
   maintenance of a plant and the proper use thereof and the
   supervision, by or on behalf of the occupier, of any process or
   operation;

“premises” includes messuages, houses, buildings, lands,
   tenements, easements and hereditaments of any tenure,
   whether open or enclosed, whether built on or not, whether
   public or private, and whether maintained under statutory
   authority or not;

“process” means any activity carried on in Singapore, whether
   on premises or by way of a plant which is designed to move
   or to be moved whether on roads or otherwise, which are
   capable of causing pollution to the environment;

[Deleted by Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

“registered inspector” means a person whose name is registered
   under section 34;

“road” has the meaning given by the Road Traffic Act 1961;

“road tanker” means a goods vehicle as defined in the Road
   Traffic Act 1961 which has a tank that is structurally attached
   to or is an integral part of the frame of the vehicle;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

13  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

    “sale” includes barter, exchange, import and export and also
       includes offering or attempting to sell, or causing or allowing
       to be sold, or exposing for sale or receiving or sending or
       delivering for sale; and the word “sell” is to be construed
       accordingly;

    “scheduled premises” means any premises specified in the
       First Schedule;

    “sewage” has the meaning given by the Sewerage, Drainage and
       Coastal Protection Act 1999;

                                                                            [Act 8 of 2026 wef 29/05/2026]

    “sewerage system” has the meaning given by the Sewerage,
       Drainage and Coastal Protection Act 1999;

                                                                            [Act 8 of 2026 wef 29/05/2026]

    “smoke” includes soot, ash, grit and gritty particles emitted in
       smoke;

    “tank” means a container having a total internal capacity
       exceeding 250 litres for liquids and 500 litres for gases;

    “tank container” means a tank with a total liquid capacity of
       450 litres or more which is —

    (a) used for the conveyance of a liquid, gaseous,
         powdery or granular substance; and

    (b) constructed for repeated use and to facilitate the
         carriage of goods by one or more modes of transport
         without need of removal of its structural equipment
         or intermediate reloading of its contents;

    “the environment” consists of all or any of the following media,
       namely, air, water and land;

    “Town Council” has the meaning given by the Town Councils
       Act 1988;

    “toxic substance” means any trade effluent, chemical, oil or any
       other substance which is noxious, injurious or polluting;

    “trade effluent” means any liquid, either with or without
       particles of matter suspended in the liquid, which is the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        14

          outflow from any trade, business or manufacture or of any
          works of engineering or building construction;

“watercourse” includes a reservoir, lake, river, stream, canal,
   drain, spring or well or a part of the sea abutting on the
   foreshore and any other natural, artificial or subsurface body
   of water;

“work place” means any premises or place used for any
   industrial, trade, commercial or manufacturing purposes
   and includes all construction sites, work sites and farms.

          [47/2004; 12/2011; 4/2016; 4/2021]

                                    PART 2

                            ADMINISTRATION

Appointment of Director-General and authorised officers

 3.—(1) The Minister may appoint any person to be the
Director‑General of Environmental Protection who is to be
responsible for the administration of this Act and any other written
law, subject to the general or special directions of the Minister.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (1A) An appointment under subsection (1) must be published in the
Gazette.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (2) The Director-General may in writing appoint any of the
following persons to be an authorised officer for the purposes of
this Act:

       (a) a public officer;

       (b) an officer or auxiliary officer of the Agency;

       (c) an officer of any statutory authority;

       (d) a member or an employee of any Town Council;

       (e) an auxiliary police officer appointed under the Police
            Force Act 2004.

                                                                                                             [4/2016]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

15  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

 (3) The Director-General may, with the approval of the Minister,
delegate the exercise of all or any of the powers conferred or duties
imposed upon the Director‑General by this Act to any authorised
officer, subject to such conditions or limitations as the
Director‑General may specify.

Public servants

 4. Any authorised officer who is generally or specially authorised
under section 3(2) to perform or exercise all or any of the functions,
duties or powers which are imposed or conferred by this Act upon the
Director‑General is deemed to be a public servant for the purposes of
the Penal Code 1871.

Protection from personal liability

 5.—(1) No liability shall lie against any authorised officer by
reason of the fact that —

       (a) any works are carried out in accordance with the provisions
            of this Act; or

       (b) such works or plans of the works are subject to inspection,
            approval or certification by the Director‑General or an
            authorised officer.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (2) Nothing in this Act makes it obligatory for the Director‑General
or any authorised officer to inspect any building or works or the site
of any proposed works to ascertain whether the provisions of this Act
are complied with or whether any plans, certificates, reports, notices
or other documents submitted to him or her are accurate.

 (3) No matter or thing done by the Director‑General or by any
authorised officer, if it were done with reasonable care and in good
faith for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act,
subjects the Director‑General or any authorised officer personally to
any liability whatsoever.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (4) Where the Director-General or any authorised officer provides
any information to any person in respect of any building or works by
electronic or other means, neither the Agency, the Director‑General

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        16

nor any authorised officer shall be liable for any loss or damage
suffered by any person by reason of any error or omission of whatever
nature or howsoever caused, including any defect or breakdown in the
equipment used for providing the information, if such error or
omission is made in good faith and in the ordinary course of duties of
the Director‑General or authorised officer.

                                    PART 3

                   USE OF SCHEDULED PREMISES

Written permission for use of scheduled premises

 6.—(1) A person must not occupy or use any scheduled premises
specified in the First Schedule without a written permission granted
by the Director‑General.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

 (3) Any application for a written permission under this section must
be made to the Director‑General giving details of the following:

       (a) the trade, industry or process proposed to be carried on in
            or on the premises;

       (b) the measures the applicant undertakes to adopt to control
            air, water and noise pollution from the premises;

       (c) the measures the applicant undertakes to adopt to manage
            hazardous substances and to treat and dispose of toxic
            substances originating from or stored within the premises.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

Power of Director-General to attach conditions to written
permission

 7.—(1) Without limiting section 32, the Director‑General may, in
granting a written permission under section 6, impose conditions to
ensure that pollution of the environment, as well as hazardous
substances, are adequately managed and controlled, including but not
limited to the following conditions:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

17  Management Act 1999                    2020 Ed.

    (a) requiring the owner or occupier —

    (i) to install and operate an industrial plant, fuel burning
        equipment, control equipment or treatment plant in
        or on the scheduled premises;

    (ii) to repair, alter or replace any industrial plant, fuel
         burning equipment, control equipment or treatment
         plant installed in or on the scheduled premises;

    (iii) to erect or alter the height or dimension of any
          chimney through which air impurities may be
          emitted from the scheduled premises;

    (iv) to alter the method of operation or process used in or
         on the scheduled premises to prevent or reduce air,
         water or noise pollution or hazards;

    (v) to install and operate instruments and carry out tests
         and keep records of any tests and any method of
         operation or supervision that may be required;

    (vi) to use a specified type of fuel to prevent or reduce air
         pollution; or

    (vii) to carry out any of the requirements imposed on the
          owner or occupier under this paragraph within such
          period as may be specified;

    (b) prohibiting the owner or occupier from altering or
         replacing any control equipment or treatment plant
         installed in or on the scheduled premises except with the
         approval of the Director‑General;

       (c) prohibiting the owner or occupier from operating any fuel
            burning equipment or industrial plant installed or altered
            after the written permission has been granted unless the
            Director‑General has given approval to do so.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (2) An owner or occupier of scheduled premises to whom any
written permission is granted must comply with every condition
imposed under subsection (1).

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        18

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (2) shall be
guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

Permit for certain works on scheduled premises

 8.—(1) The owner or occupier of any scheduled premises must not
without a permit granted by the Director‑General —

       (a) alter the method of operation of any trade or industrial
            process, fuel burning equipment, control equipment,
            treatment plant or industrial plant in or on the scheduled
            premises;

       (b) install, alter or replace any fuel burning equipment, control
            equipment, treatment plant or industrial plant in or on the
            scheduled premises;

       (c) erect or alter the height or dimension of any chimney
            through which air impurities may be emitted from the
            scheduled premises; or

       (d) use any fuel other than the type of fuel specified in writing
            by the Director‑General.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (2) An application for a permit under subsection (1) must contain
details of the proposed installation, alteration, replacement or
erection.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

Change of owner or occupier

 9.—(1) Where there has been any change in the ownership or
occupancy of any scheduled premises, the person who becomes the
owner or occupier thereof must notify the Director‑General in writing
of such change within 14 days from the date the person becomes the
owner or occupier of those premises.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

19  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

 (2) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

                                    PART 4

                      AIR POLLUTION CONTROL

Occupier to maintain and operate air pollution control
equipment

 10.—(1) The occupier of any industrial or trade premises must
maintain any fuel burning equipment and any air pollution control
equipment installed in or on the premises in an efficient condition.

 (2) The occupier of any industrial or trade premises must ensure
that any air pollution control equipment installed in or on the
premises is working in a proper and efficient manner whenever the
industrial plant or fuel burning equipment is being used.

 (3) Any occupier who fails to comply with subsection (1) or (2)
shall be guilty of an offence.

Prohibition of dark smoke from chimney

 11.—(1) Any owner or occupier of any industrial or trade premises
who causes, permits or allows the emission of dark smoke from a
chimney of, or used in connection with, those premises shall be guilty
of an offence.

 (2) This section does not apply to the emission of dark smoke from
any chimney lasting for not longer than any periods that may be
prescribed and subject to any prescribed limitations.

Control of air impurities

 12.—(1) Any owner or occupier of any industrial or trade premises
who carries on any trade or industrial process, or operates any fuel
burning equipment or industrial plant in or on the premises in any
manner that causes, permits or allows the emission of air impurities in
excess of the standard of concentration or rate of emission prescribed

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        20

in respect of that industry, process, fuel burning equipment or
industrial plant shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) Where any such standard has not been so prescribed, it is the
duty of the owner or occupier of any industrial or trade premises to
carry on any trade or industrial process or operate any fuel burning
equipment or industrial plant in or on the premises by the best
practicable means available as may be necessary to prevent or
minimise air pollution.

 (3) Any dispute that arises as to the best practicable means available
for the purposes of subsection (2) is to be determined by the
Director‑General.

 (4) The Director-General may, in respect of a specified period of
time, by written notice require the owner or occupier of any industrial
or trade premises to ensure that any air impurity exceeding a specified
amount is not emitted during that period.

 (5) The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, by
regulations provide for the control or prohibition of the emission of
air impurities from any other source.

Power of Director-General to require work on any premises

 13.—(1) Where, in the opinion of the Director‑General, any air
impurities are being or are likely to be emitted from any industrial or
trade premises, the Director‑General may by written notice require
the owner or occupier of the premises —

       (a) to install and operate any industrial plant, air pollution
            control equipment or additional air pollution control
            equipment, in or on the premises;

       (b) to repair, alter or replace any industrial plant, fuel burning
            equipment or air pollution control equipment installed in or
            on the premises;

       (c) to erect or alter the height or dimension of any chimney
            through which air impurities may be discharged from the
            premises;

       (d) to alter or cease the method of operation or process used in
            or on the premises to prevent, cease or reduce air pollution;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

21  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

    (e) to use a specified type of fuel to prevent or reduce air
        pollution;

    (f) to dismantle or disconnect any industrial plant, fuel
        burning equipment, air pollution control equipment or
        chimney installed in or on the premises; or

    (g) to install and operate such instruments and carry out such
         tests and keep records thereof,

within such time and in such manner as may be specified in the
notice.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (2) The owner or occupier of any industrial or trade premises to
whom a written notice is given under this section must comply with
all the requirements set out in the notice.

Power to prohibit use of combustible materials, fuel burning
equipment or industrial plants in designated areas

 14.—(1) The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, by
order in the Gazette —

       (a) prohibit or restrict the use of any or any class of
            combustible material, fuel burning equipment or
            industrial plant as may be specified in the order; or

       (b) prohibit or restrict the burning of any or any class of
            material as may be specified in the order,

within such area or premises as may be designated and at such times
as may be specified in the order.

 (2) Any occupier or owner of any premises or any other person who
contravenes an order made under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

 (3) If, in any proceedings for a contravention or non‑compliance of
an order made under subsection (1), it is shown that any combustible
material, fuel burning equipment or industrial plant was found or that
the burning of any material was carried out in or on any premises, it is
presumed, until the contrary is proved, that —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        22

(a) the combustible material, fuel burning equipment or
     industrial plant was used; or

(b) the burning of any material was carried out,

by the occupier of the premises, other than a principal contractor to
which section 35 applies.

                                    PART 5

                   WATER POLLUTION CONTROL

Written permission for discharge of trade effluent, oil,
chemical, sewage or other polluting matters

 15.—(1) Any person who discharges, or causes or permits to be
discharged, any trade effluent, oil, chemical, sewage or other
polluting matters into any drain or land, without a written
permission from the Director‑General, shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (2) Where any trade effluent, oil, chemical, sewage or other
polluting matters has been discharged from any premises into any
drain or land, it is presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the
occupier of the premises, other than a principal contractor to which
section 35 applies, had discharged, or caused or permitted to be
discharged, the trade effluent, oil, chemical, sewage or other polluting
matters in contravention of subsection (1).

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), any person who causes or suffers any
trade effluent, oil, chemical, sewage or other polluting matters to
enter or pass into any drain or land without a written permission from
the Director‑General (whether wilfully or by accident) must
immediately inform the Director‑General of such occurrence.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (4) The requirements in subsection (3) may be waived by the
Director‑General in any case where the amount of trade effluent, oil,
chemical, sewage or other polluting matters is, in the opinion of the
Director‑General, not of a substantial nature.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

23  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

 (5) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (3) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000.

 (6) This section does not apply to the discharge of a toxic substance
or hazardous substance to which section 17 applies.

Plant for treatment of trade effluent

 16.—(1) The occupier of any premises must treat any trade effluent
discharged from the premises in the manner that may be prescribed
before the trade effluent is discharged into any drain or land pursuant
to a written permission granted under section 15.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (2) A person using, working or operating any plant for the purpose
of treating any trade effluent must use, work or operate and maintain
the plant in the manner that the Director‑General may require.

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (1) or (2) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable —

       (a) on the first conviction, to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or
            to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
            both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
            fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day
            during which the offence continues after conviction; and

       (b) on a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine not
            exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 3 months or to both and, in the case of a
            continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $2,000
            for every day or part of a day during which the offence
            continues after conviction.

Penalties for discharging toxic substances or hazardous
substances into inland waters

 17.—(1) Any person who discharges, or causes or permits to be
discharged, any toxic substance or hazardous substance into any
inland water so as to be likely to cause pollution of the environment
shall be guilty of an offence and shall —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        24

(a) be liable on the first conviction to a fine not exceeding
     $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
     12 months or to both; and

(b) be punished on a second or subsequent conviction with
     both imprisonment for a term of not less than one month
     and not more than 12 months and a fine not exceeding
     $100,000.

 (2) Where a person carrying on any trade or business has been
convicted of a second or subsequent offence under subsection (1)(b)
for the discharge of, or for causing or permitting the discharge of, any
toxic substance or hazardous substance which is produced by any
process or work in connection with that trade or business, the Agency
may, by written order, direct that person to immediately cease
carrying on that process or work either indefinitely or for the period
that may be specified in the order.

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with an order made under
subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 months or to both and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $2,000 for every
day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (4) If any person fails to comply with an order made under
subsection (2), the Director‑General may take any step or measure
that is necessary to ensure that the order is complied with and the
reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the Director‑General in
taking such step or measure are recoverable from the person in default
as a debt due to the Agency.

(5) For the purposes of this section —

(a) a person is deemed to have discharged a toxic substance or
     hazardous substance into any inland water if the person
     places the substance or causes it to be placed in a position
     where it is liable to fall or descend or be washed or to
     percolate or be blown into the water;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

25  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

    (b) the discharge of a toxic substance or hazardous substance
         is deemed to cause pollution of the environment if the
         substance has been discharged or placed in such a manner
         or in such quantity (whether by itself or with any other
         substance) as to subject persons or animals to a material
         risk of death, injury or impairment of health or as to
         threaten to pollute (whether on the surface or underground)
         any inland water;

    (c) the fact that the toxic substance or hazardous substance is
        placed in containers is not of itself taken to exclude any
        pollution of the environment which might be expected to
        be caused if the substance were not in containers; and

    (d) where the toxic substance or hazardous substance has been
         discharged from any premises into any inland water, it is
         presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the occupier of
         the premises, other than a principal contractor to which
         section 35 applies, had discharged, or caused or permitted
         to be discharged, the toxic substance or hazardous
         substance in contravention of subsection (1).

 (6) No prosecution may be instituted under this section without the
written consent of the Public Prosecutor.

Power of Director-General to require the removal and cleaning
up of toxic substance or trade effluent, oil, chemical, sewage,
hazardous substance or other polluting matters

 18.—(1) The Director-General may, by written notice, require any
person who has discharged or caused or permitted to be discharged or
spilled any toxic substance, trade effluent, oil, chemical, sewage,
hazardous substance or polluting matters onto any land or into any
drain or the sea, to remove and clean up such toxic substance, trade
effluent, oil, chemical, sewage, hazardous substance or polluting
matters within a specified time to be fixed by the Director‑General as
he or she considers fit.

 (2) Any person who fails to comply with a notice issued under
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        26

Power of Director-General to require measures to be taken to
prevent water pollution due to storage or transportation of
toxic substances or any other polluting matters

 19.—(1) The Director-General may, by written notice, require any
person who effects, permits or carries out any activity related to the
storage or transportation of a toxic substance or any other polluting
matters —

(a) to use a method of storage, operation or process to prevent
     water pollution;

(b) to construct or install spill containment facilities;

          (c) to use containers, tanks, tank containers or road tankers
              that are constructed to meet stipulated standards and with
              approved materials;

(d) to install and operate equipment to prevent any leakage or
     discharge from containers, tanks, tank containers or road
     tankers;

          (e) to install and operate pollution monitoring equipment to
              prevent and detect any leakage or discharge;

          (f) to carry out specific tests on equipment, tanks or any other
              related facilities and to submit the results of these tests;

(g) to prepare and submit contingency plan for events of
     accidental discharge or spillage of oil, chemicals, trade
     effluent or other polluting matters; and

(h) to carry out any works as required by the Director‑General
     that are necessary to prevent water pollution.

 (2) Any person who fails to comply with any requirement in
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
                   Environmental Protection and

27                 Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

                   PART 6

    LAND POLLUTION CONTROL

Pollution of land

 20. The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations to control the pollution of land whereby the condition of
the land is so changed as to make or be likely to make the land or the
produce of the land obnoxious, noxious or poisonous.

                                    PART 7

              HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES CONTROL

Application of this Part to hazardous substances

 21. This Part applies to the hazardous substances specified in the
first column of Part I of the Second Schedule except where —

       (a) they fall within the exclusion specified in the second
            column of that Part corresponding to those substances; or

       (b) they are contained in any substance, preparation or product
            specified in Part II of that Schedule.

General prohibition with respect to importation, manufacture
and sale of hazardous substances

 22.—(1) A person must not import, manufacture, possess for sale,
sell or offer for sale any hazardous substance unless the person holds
a licence granted by the Director‑General for that purpose.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (2) Every licence granted to any person under this section is not
transferable to any other person and no licence may authorise the
import, manufacture, possession for sale, sale or offer for sale of any
hazardous substance by any individual other than the individual
named in the licence.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        28

Prohibitions and regulations with respect to importation,
manufacture and sale of hazardous substances

 23.—(1) A person must not import, manufacture, possess for sale,
sell or offer for sale any hazardous substance unless —

(a) the importation, manufacture, possession for sale, sale or
     offer for sale is effected in accordance with the provisions
     of the licence and with any condition specified in the
     licence;

(b) the sale is effected by or under the personal supervision of
     the person named in the licence; and

       (c) proper records of the sale as required by the
            Director‑General are kept.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (2) A person must not possess for sale, sell or offer for sale any
hazardous substance unless the container of the hazardous substance
is labelled in the manner prescribed in regulations made by the
Agency, with the approval of the Minister.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence.

Storage, use and dealing of hazardous substances

 24.—(1) Every person storing, using or otherwise dealing with any
hazardous substance and every agent, servant or employee of such
person must do so in such a manner as not to threaten the health or
safety of any person, or to cause pollution of the environment.

 (2) In any proceedings under this section, if any person is proved to
have kept or had in the person’s possession or under the person’s
control any hazardous substance, the person is presumed, until the
contrary is proved, to have done so knowingly.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

29  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

Power of Director-General to require removal of hazardous
substances from premises

 25.—(1) If, in the opinion of the Director‑General, any of the
following items used, stored or kept in any premises is likely to
threaten the health or safety of any person or to cause pollution of the
environment, he or she may, by written notice, require the owner or
occupier of any premises to remove the item to a disposal facility:

    (a) any hazardous substance;

    (b) any material contaminated with a hazardous substance;

       (c) any equipment, device or pipeline contaminated with a
            hazardous substance.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (2) The Director-General may, by written notice, require the owner
or occupier upon whom a notice has been served under subsection (1)
to furnish evidence that the item mentioned in the notice has been
disposed of at a disposal facility in accordance with the notice.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with a notice made under
subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000.

Power to require owner or occupier of hazardous installations
to carry out impact analysis studies

 26.—(1) The Director-General may, by written notice served on the
owner or occupier of any installation, whether fixed or mobile, which
is used or intended to be used to carry out activities involving the
storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, require the owner
or occupier to carry out —

       (a) identification of all possible potential hazards that may
            threaten the health or safety of any person, or cause
            pollution of the environment;

       (b) estimation of the frequency or probability of occurrence of
            the potential hazards identified under paragraph (a);

       (c) quantification of the consequences and risk levels of the
            potential hazards identified under paragraph (a);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        30

(d) evaluation of the effects of potential fires or other disasters
     including the potential for release of toxic materials or
     toxic combustion products and the potential for release of
     contaminated firefighting water into the environment; and

          (e) identification of all necessary preventive measures to avoid
              and control the potential hazards identified under
              paragraph (a) and formulation of a programme to
              implement the measures.

 (2) The Director-General may, by written notice, require the owner
or occupier —

(a) to conduct a review and evaluation of any existing
     measures for the prevention, reduction or control of any
     potential hazard that may endanger public health or cause
     pollution of the environment for the purpose of
     ascertaining whether the measures are sufficient or
     effective;

(b) to submit for the Director-General’s approval, within the
     time that may be specified by the Director‑General, a
     proposal for the implementation of any new or additional
     measures to prevent, reduce or control any potential hazard
     that may endanger public health or cause pollution of the
     environment; and

          (c) to implement any new or additional measures to prevent,
              reduce or control any potential hazard that may endanger
              public health or cause pollution of the environment that the
              Director‑General may approve or specify.

 (3) The review and evaluation mentioned in subsection (2)(a) must
be conducted in the manner that the Director‑General may, by written
notice, require and the Director‑General may issue guidelines for this
purpose.

 (4) The Director-General may, by written notice, if he or she
considers it necessary —

(a) require any modification or addition to be made to the
     measures proposed by the owner or occupier under
     subsection (2)(b); or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

31  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

    (b) require the owner or occupier to conduct a further review
         and evaluation.

 (5) Any person who fails to comply with any notice made under
subsection (1), (2) or (4) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000.

Penalty for offences involving hazardous substances

 27. Any person who is guilty of an offence under this Part, for
which no penalty is expressly provided, shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 2 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
to a further fine not exceeding $2,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

                                    PART 8

                             NOISE CONTROL

Control of noise from construction of building and other works

 28.—(1) Where it appears to the Director-General that works of the
following description, that is to say —

       (a) the erection, construction, alteration, repair or maintenance
            of buildings, structures or roads;

       (b) the breaking up, opening or boring under any road or
            adjacent land in connection with the construction,
            inspection, maintenance or removal of works;

       (c) piling, demolition or dredging works; or

       (d) any other work of engineering construction,

are being, or are going to be carried out on any premises, the
Director‑General may, by written notice, impose requirements as to
the way in which the works are to be carried out on the person who
appears to be carrying out, or going to carry out the works or on any
other person appearing to the Director‑General to be responsible for
or to have control over the carrying out of the works.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        32

(2) The notice may, in particular, specify —

(a) the plant or machinery which is, or is not, to be used;

(b) the hours during which the works may be carried out; and

          (c) the level of noise or vibration which may be emitted from
              the premises mentioned in subsection (1) or at any
              specified part of those premises or which may be so
              emitted during specified hours.

 (3) Where a person who has been served a notice under
subsection (1) —

(a) fails to comply with any requirement contained in the
     notice; or

(b) contravenes any regulations in relation to noise emitted
     from the premises mentioned in subsection (1),

the Director-General may, by written notice, order the person to stop
any work carried out in the premises mentioned in subsection (1) until
the time that the notice is revoked or until the time that the
requirements imposed by the Director‑General have been complied
with.

 (4) Any person who fails to comply with a notice issued under
subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 for every day during
which the notice is not complied with or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 3 months or to both.

Surveillance system

 28A.—(1) Where it appears to the Director‑General that —

       (a) any works of any description mentioned in section 28(1)
            are being carried out on any construction site (called in this
            section the subject premises); and

       (b) the owner or occupier of the subject premises (called in this
            section the responsible person) has contravened or is
            contravening any regulations relating to the days and times
            when the works may be carried out on the subject premises,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

33  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

the Director‑General may, by written notice, require the responsible
person to install, operate and maintain, at the responsible person’s
own expense, an electronic video surveillance system (called in this
section a surveillance system) for the purpose of monitoring whether
and when the works are being carried out on the subject premises.

 (2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the written notice may
specify —

    (a) the description or type of surveillance system required, and
         any criteria for the surveillance system, including —

    (i) the resolution of the images, and the number of
        frames per second, capable of being recorded using
        the surveillance system;

    (ii) the ability of the surveillance system to record
         images under various lighting conditions; and

    (iii) the quality of any sound capable of being recorded
          using the surveillance system;

    (b) the location or locations in or on the subject premises, or in
         or on any premises that are adjacent to the subject premises
         (called in this section adjacent premises), at which the
         closed‑circuit television cameras or other electronic visual
         monitoring devices of the surveillance system (whether
         with or without accompanying audio features) (called in
         this section monitoring devices) must be installed, the
         number of such monitoring devices at any such location
         and the part of the subject premises to be recorded by any
         such monitoring device;

    (c) the time by which the surveillance system must be
        installed; and

    (d) the period of any day (whether the whole or any part or
         parts of the day) during which the surveillance system or
         any part of the surveillance system must be operational.

 (3) For the purpose of subsection (2), the written notice may specify
different descriptions or types of surveillance systems, and different

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        34

criteria for the surveillance systems, for different parts of the subject
premises or any adjacent premises.

(4) The responsible person must —

(a) keep each recording made using any surveillance system
     installed under this section, for such period and in
     accordance with such requirements as may be specified
     in the written notice; and

(b) provide the Director‑General or any authorised officer with
     full and free access to any recording mentioned in
     paragraph (a), or with a copy of any such recording.

 (5) Without affecting subsection (7), if a responsible person fails to
comply with a written notice given to the responsible person under
subsection (1) in respect of the subject premises —

(a) the Director‑General or any authorised officer may install,
     operate and maintain any surveillance system in or on the
     subject premises, in accordance with the requirements for
     the surveillance system set out in the written notice;

(b) the responsible person must provide the Director‑General
     or authorised officer with any reasonable assistance
     requested by the Director‑General or authorised officer
     in the exercise of the powers conferred under
     paragraph (a), including granting the Director‑General or
     authorised officer or a contractor appointed by the
     Director‑General or authorised officer access to such
     cables and wiring as may be necessary or to the
     surveillance system so installed; and

          (c) any costs and expenses incurred by the Director‑General or
              authorised officer in exercise of the powers conferred
              under paragraph (a) are recoverable from the responsible
              person as a debt due to the Agency.

 (6) A responsible person must take all reasonable steps to ensure
that no person —

(a) in relation to any monitoring device installed under this
     section, for any part of any period for which the whole or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

35  Management Act 1999                             2020 Ed.

    the part of the surveillance system that the monitoring
    device is a part of, is required to be operational under this
    section —

    (i) obscures or in any way obstructs any part of the field
        of view of the monitoring device; or

    (ii) prevents the monitoring device from receiving or
         recording any sound that the monitoring device is
         intended to receive or record; or

    (b) tampers with or does anything to compromise or adversely
         affect any image, sound or video recorded by, or the proper
         functioning of, any part of any surveillance system
         installed under this section.

(7) A responsible person that, without reasonable excuse —

    (a) fails to comply with a written notice given to the
         responsible person under subsection (1); or

    (b) contravenes subsection (4), (5)(b) or (6),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $40,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

 (8) For the purpose of subsection (7)(a), it is a reasonable excuse
for a responsible person not to comply with a written notice given to
the responsible person under subsection (1) if, and to the extent
that —

    (a) the written notice requires the responsible person to install,
         operate or maintain any one or more monitoring devices at
         any location or locations in or on any adjacent premises;

    (b) the responsible person is not the owner or occupier of the
         adjacent premises; and

    (c) the responsible person has taken reasonable steps, but is
        unable, to obtain the consent of the owner or occupier of
        the adjacent premises for the responsible person to install,
        operate or maintain the monitoring devices (as the case
        may be) in the manner required by the written notice.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        36

(9) Section 41 does not apply to a written notice under this section.

                                                                             [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

Control of noise from work place

 29.—(1) The Director-General may, by written notice served on the
owner or occupier of any work place, prohibit the owner or occupier
from causing, permitting or allowing —

       (a) any specified activity to be carried out in or on those
            premises; or

       (b) any specified plant to be used or operated in or on those
            premises,

in a manner that causes the emission from those premises of noise
that, when measured at any specified point (whether within or outside
those premises), exceeds the specified level.

 (2) Where the Director-General is satisfied that any noise is being
or is likely to be emitted from any work place, the Director‑General
may, by a written noise control notice served on the owner or
occupier, require the owner or occupier —

       (a) to install, alter, maintain or operate any noise control
            equipment specified in the notice in or on those premises;

       (b) to repair, alter or replace any noise control equipment in or
            on those premises;

       (c) to erect a noise barrier in or on those premises;

       (d) to install a specified type of plant, where the
            Director‑General is satisfied that the use of that plant
            will result in the prevention or reduction of the emission of
            noise from those premises; or

       (e) to carry out repairs or adjustments to a specified plant
            where the Director‑General is satisfied that the carrying
            out of those repairs or adjustments will result in the
            prevention or reduction of the emission of noise from those
            premises,

within the time and in the manner specified in the notice.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

37  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

 (3) The Director-General may, by written notice served on the
owner or occupier of any work place, require the owner or occupier to
operate, in accordance with any directions contained in the notice,
any noise control equipment in or on those premises.

 (4) Where a person who has been served a notice under
subsection (1), (2) or (3) —

    (a) fails to comply with any requirement contained in the
         notice; or

    (b) contravenes any regulations in relation to noise emitted
         from any work place,

the Director-General may, by written notice, order that person to stop
any work or activity carried out in the work place until the notice is
revoked or until the time when the requirements imposed by the
Director‑General have been complied with.

 (5) Any person who fails to comply with a notice issued under
subsection (4) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 for every day during
which the notice is not complied with or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 3 months or to both.

 (6) In this section, “plant” means any plant, equipment, apparatus,
device, machine or mechanism.

Director-General to have regard to certain provisions

 30. In acting under section 28 or 29, the Director‑General must
have regard —

       (a) to the relevant provisions of any code of practice published
            or mentioned in the regulations;

       (b) before specifying any particular methods or plant or
            machinery, to the desirability in the interests of any
            recipient of the notice in question of specifying other
            methods or plant or machinery which would be
            substantially as effective in minimising noise and would
            be more acceptable to that recipient; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        38

          (c) to the need to protect any person in the locality in which the
              premises or work place in question are situated from the
              effects of noise.

            PART 9
          LICENCES

                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Single licence

 31.—(1) Where a person is required by virtue of the provisions of
this Act to obtain more than one licence, the person may apply to the
Director‑General for a single licence to carry out the activities
specified in the person’s application and the Director‑General may, if
he or she thinks fit, grant or refuse to grant the single licence.

 (2) If the holder of the licence is in breach of any restriction or
condition subject to which it was granted or is in contravention of any
of the provisions of this Act that may affect the licence, the
Director‑General may instead of suspending, cancelling or revoking
the single licence under section 32(2) —

       (a) prohibit the licensee from carrying out one or more
            activities specified in the single licence; or

       (b) modify any condition subject to which the licence was
            granted.

General provisions on licences

 32.—(1) The grant or renewal of any licence is at the discretion of
the Director‑General.

 (2) Any licence may be —

       (a) granted, renewed or refused without giving any reason;

       (b) granted or renewed subject to any restrictions and
            conditions that the Director‑General thinks fit; or

       (c) suspended, cancelled or revoked at any time without
            compensation and without notice by the Director‑General
            upon breach of any restriction or condition subject to

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

39  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

    which it was granted or to any contravention of such of the
    provisions of this Act that may affect the licence.

 (3) The Director-General may amend or delete any of the
conditions imposed on any licence or impose additional conditions
without giving any reasons and at any time during the validity period
of the licence.

 (4) An application for a licence must be made in such form and
contain such particulars and information as the Director‑General may
determine.

 (5) The Director-General may require any applicant for a licence to
furnish any information and evidence that he or she may reasonably
require for a full and proper consideration of the application and, in
the event of a refusal to furnish the information, must refuse to grant
or renew the licence.

 (6) Any person who wilfully furnishes any false information in any
application for a licence shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 and any licence
granted is void and of no effect.

 (7) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any licence may be for any
period that the Director‑General thinks fit.

 (8) There is to be charged in respect of any application for the grant,
amendment or renewal of any licence, a fee (if any) that may be
prescribed by the Agency, with the approval of the Minister.

 (9) Where a licence is granted or renewed for a period of less than
12 months, the Director‑General may charge a proportionate fee
therefor; and in so charging any part of a month is reckoned as one
month.

 (10) A licensee is not entitled to a refund of any fee paid by the
licensee in respect of any licence.

 (11) A person must not in any manner transfer any licence or permit
any licence to be used by any other person without the written
approval of the Director‑General.

 (12) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any person aggrieved by
the refusal by the Director‑General to grant, amend or renew a licence

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        40

or by the suspension or revocation by the Director‑General of any
licence may, within 14 days of the refusal, suspension or revocation,
appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (13) In this section, “licence” includes any approval, permit,
permission, authority or authorisation which may be granted or
renewed by the Director‑General under this Act, but excludes any
certificate issued by the Director-General under Part 9A.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

                                   PART 9A

             POLLUTION CONTROL REQUIREMENTS
                      FOR CONTROLLED WORKS

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Interpretation of this Part

 33. In this Part —

      “amended plans” means plans showing any deviation from, or
         any amendment or addition to, any plans of controlled works
         certified by the Director-General in a clearance certificate;

      “building” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Building
         Control Act 1989;

      “clearance certificate” means a certificate described in
         section 33B(1) and issued under section 33D(2)(a), and
         includes such certificate issued under section 33D(2)(a) as
         applied by section 33G;

      “compliance certificate” means a certificate described in
         section 33I(1) and issued under section 33I(3)(a);

      “controlled works” means any building works or industrial plant
         works;

      “design certificate” means a certificate described in
         section 33E(1) and issued under section 33E(3)(a);

      “developer”, in relation to any controlled works, means the
         person for whom or on whose behalf the controlled works are
         carried out;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

41  Management Act 1999                             2020 Ed.

    “foundation” means that part of a building which is below or in
       direct contact with the ground, and through which the weight
       of the building and the loads acting on the building are
       transmitted to the ground, and includes any footing, raft or
       pile of the building;

    “plans”, in relation to any controlled works —

    (a) includes drawings, details, diagrams, digital
         representations generated from building
         information modelling, structural details and
         calculations showing or relating to the works; and

    (b) if prepared in electronic form, includes the medium
         in which the plans of the works have been stored;

    “pollution control requirements” means the requirements set out
       in regulations made under section 77 and any prescribed
       codes of practice relating to the prevention, reduction or
       control of pollution of the environment from any completed
       buildings or industrial plants;

    “site formation works” means any kind of site formation and
       includes earthworks for site stabilisation, the construction of
       foundations, basements, sub‑structures, piling, underpinning,
       ground anchors, trenches or any other kind of ground works;

    “temporary compliance certificate” means a certificate issued
       under section 33J(1).

                                                                           [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Purpose of this Part

 33A.—(1) The purpose of this Part is to establish a regulatory
framework to prevent, reduce or control pollution of the environment
from any completed buildings and industrial plants.

 (2) This Part does not limit the operation of any other written law
relating to the regulation of controlled works.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        42

No controlled works without clearance certificate

 33B.—(1) Subject to sections 33C and 33E, a person must not
commence or carry out, or permit or authorise the commencement or
carrying out of any controlled works without a certificate (called in
this Part a clearance certificate) issued by the Director-General under
section 33D(2)(a) in respect of those controlled works.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable —

(a) on the first conviction, to a fine not exceeding $20,000 and,
     in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
     exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
     which the offence continues after conviction; and

(b) on a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine not
     exceeding $50,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence,
     to a further fine not exceeding $2,000 for every day or part
     of a day during which the offence continues after that
     second or subsequent conviction.

                                                                    [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Controlled works exempt from section 33B

 33C.—(1) Regulations made under section 77 may exempt from
section 33B any class of controlled works for any buildings or
industrial plants that have been assessed by the Agency to pose a low
risk of pollution to the environment, subject to such conditions as
may be prescribed.

 (2) The conditions mentioned in subsection (1) may include (but
are not limited to) the following:

       (a) that the plans of the controlled works must be lodged with
            the Director-General, in the form and manner and within
            the time specified by the Director-General, together with
            any other information or documents specified by the
            Director-General;

       (b) that the person who prepared the plans of the controlled
            works must provide to the Director-General, in the form
            and manner and within the time specified by the Director-

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

43  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

    General, a declaration of the matters specified by the
    Director-General.

                                                                 [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Application for clearance certificate

 33D.—(1) An application for a clearance certificate for any
controlled works must be made to the Director-General by the
developer of the controlled works, in the form and manner specified
by the Director-General, and must be accompanied by the documents
and information specified by the Director-General.

 (2) Subject to section 33F, the Director-General may —

       (a) if the plans of the controlled works comply with the
            pollution control requirements (except any requirements
            that have been waived in the particular case by the
            Director-General), approve the application and issue a
            clearance certificate, with or without conditions;

       (b) give a written direction to the developer to comply with
            any requirement that the Director-General may specify for
            the purpose of ensuring that all or any of the plans
            submitted to him or her comply with specified pollution
            control requirements; or

       (c) disapprove the application.

 (3) If a direction given by the Director-General under
subsection (2)(b) is not complied with within the period specified
in that direction, or such further period as may be allowed by the
Director-General, the application is, at the end of that period, deemed
to be disapproved by the Director-General.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Preliminary certification of building designs

 33E.—(1) A developer of any controlled works to which
section 33B applies who intends to carry out any part of those
works (being site formation works or other prescribed works) before
the issue of a clearance certificate, may apply to the Director-General
for a preliminary certificate (called in this Part a design certificate).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        44

 (2) An application for a design certificate must be made to the
Director-General, in the form and manner specified by the Director-
General, and must be accompanied by —

(a) information on the key design parameters of the controlled
     works specified by the Director-General; and

(b) any other documents and information specified by the
     Director-General.

(3) Subject to section 33F, the Director-General may —

(a) if the key design parameters of the controlled works
     comply with the pollution control requirements (except
     any requirements that have been waived in the particular
     case by the Director-General), approve the application and
     issue a design certificate, with or without conditions;

(b) give a written direction to the developer to comply with
     any requirement that the Director-General may specify for
     the purpose of ensuring that the key design parameters of
     the controlled works comply with specified pollution
     control requirements; or

          (c) disapprove the application.

 (4) If a direction given by the Director-General under
subsection (3)(b) is not complied with within the period specified
in that direction, or such further period as may be allowed by the
Director-General, the application is, at the end of that period, deemed
to be disapproved by the Director-General.

(5) A design certificate —

(a) is valid for such period as the Director-General may
     specify, which may be extended for such further period or
     periods as the Director-General may specify; and

(b) authorises the developer to carry out, during the period of
     its validity, such site formation works or other prescribed
     works as the Director-General may specify, without the
     need for a clearance certificate.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

45  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

 (6) Regulations made under section 77 may prescribe what are key
design parameters of any controlled works for the purposes of this
section.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Additional requirements for new ventures under Energy
Conservation Act 2012

 33F.—(1) Where any controlled works constitute a new venture
under section 26A of the Energy Conservation Act 2012 for which an
assessment mentioned in that section must be conducted and a report
of the assessment approved by the Director-General under that
section, the Director-General must not issue a design certificate or
clearance certificate for the controlled works without first approving
the report.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), the Director-General may issue the
applicant with a design certificate or clearance certificate subject to
the condition (in addition to any other condition that may be imposed
under section 33D(2)(a) or 33E(3)(a) (as the case may be)) that the
applicant must submit the report mentioned in subsection (1) to the
Director-General for his or her approval within the period specified
by the Director-General.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

New clearance certificate required for amended plans of
controlled works

 33G.—(1) A developer of controlled works who intends to depart
or deviate from any plans of those works for which a clearance
certificate has been issued, must apply to the Director-General for
another clearance certificate (called in this section a new certificate)
for the amended plans showing the departure or deviation.

 (2) Section 33D(2) and (3) applies (with the necessary
modifications) to applications made under subsection (1) as it
applies to applications made under section 33D(1).

 (3) Where the Director-General has issued a new certificate
pursuant to an application under subsection (1), the previous

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        46

clearance certificate for the same controlled works is treated as
cancelled.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Offence to deviate from plans certified in clearance certificate

 33H.—(1) A person who, in carrying out any controlled works
deviates, or permits or authorises the controlled works to deviate, in
any material way from any plans of the controlled works for which a
clearance certificate has been issued shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable —

       (a) on the first conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000; and

       (b) on a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not
            exceeding $50,000.

 (2) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (1) —

       (a) it is not necessary for the prosecution to prove that the
            accused knew that the controlled works deviate in any
            material way from the plans as so certified; but

       (b) it is a defence to the charge for the accused to prove, on a
            balance of probabilities, that the accused did not know and
            could not reasonably have known of the plans.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Compliance certificate required upon completion of controlled
works

 33I.—(1) Upon the completion of any controlled works the plans
(including any amended plans) of which have been certified in a
clearance certificate, the developer of the controlled works must
apply to the Director-General for a further certificate (called in this
Part a compliance certificate) that the controlled works have been
completed in accordance with —

       (a) the plans as so certified; and

       (b) the conditions (if any) in the clearance certificate.

 (2) The Director-General may, on an application under
subsection (1), require the developer or a registered inspector
appointed by the developer to inspect the completed controlled

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

47  Management Act 1999              2020 Ed.

works and submit a report stating whether the controlled works have
been completed in accordance with subsection (1)(a) and (b).

 (3) The Director-General may, after considering the application
under subsection (1) and any report submitted under subsection (2) —

    (a) issue (subject to any conditions that he or she thinks fit) a
         compliance certificate if the controlled works have been
         completed in accordance with subsection (1)(a) and (b)
         (except for any non-compliance that has been waived in a
         particular case by the Director-General);

    (b) give a written direction to the developer to comply within a
         specified period with any requirement that the Director-
         General may specify for the purpose of ensuring that the
         controlled works have been completed in accordance with
         subsection (1)(a) and (b); or

    (c) disapprove the application.

 (4) Without limiting subsection (3)(b), a direction may require
specified work or alteration to be carried out at the expense of the
developer, within a specified period and to the satisfaction of the
Director-General.

 (5) If a direction is not complied with within the period specified in
that direction, or such further period as may be allowed by the
Director-General, the application under subsection (1) is, at the end of
that period, deemed to be disapproved by the Director-General.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Temporary compliance certificate

 33J.—(1) Where an application has been made under section 33I
for a compliance certificate for any controlled works, the Director-
General may, before issuing the compliance certificate, issue a
temporary compliance certificate in the first instance.

 (2) A temporary compliance certificate is valid for such period as
the Director-General may specify, and may be issued subject to
conditions including (but not limited to) a condition that the
developer of the controlled works comply with any written
direction mentioned in section 33I(3)(b).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        48

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), section 33I(3)(b) and (4)
applies (with the necessary modifications) to that subsection.

 (4) A temporary compliance certificate is only prima facie evidence
that the building that is the subject of the controlled works or in
relation to which those works are done, has met the minimum
pollution control requirements that the Director-General considers
necessary for occupation, and is not evidence that the controlled
works have been completed in accordance with section 33I(1)(a)
and (b).

 (5) The Director-General may amend, suspend or, in the event of a
failure to comply with any condition imposed under subsection (2),
revoke any temporary compliance certificate.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Consequences of providing false or misleading information,
etc.

 33K.—(1) Any person who, for the purpose of obtaining any
certificate under this Part, provides to the Director-General any plan,
declaration, document or other information that is false or misleading
in a material particular, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable —

       (a) on the first conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000; and

       (b) on a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not
            exceeding $50,000.

 (2) The Director-General may at any time revoke any certificate
issued under this Part (including, to avoid doubt, a temporary
compliance certificate), if the Director-General is satisfied that any
plan, declaration, document or other information provided to him or
her for the purpose of obtaining the certificate is false or misleading
in a material particular.

 (3) Where a clearance certificate has been revoked under
subsection (2), any compliance certificate or temporary compliance
certificate issued in respect of the same controlled works is also
treated as revoked.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

49  Management Act 1999                                   2020 Ed.

Appeals under this Part

 33L.—(1) Any person who is aggrieved by a decision of the
Director-General (called in this section a relevant decision) —

    (a) to disapprove an application under section 33D(2)(c),
         33E(3)(c) or 33I(3)(c) (except, to avoid doubt, any such
         application that is deemed to be disapproved);

    (b) to impose conditions under section 33D(2)(a), 33E(3)(a),
         33I(3)(a) or 33J(2) on the grant of a certificate; or

    (c) to revoke any certificate under section 33J(5) or 33K(2),

may, within 14 days after the person receives the relevant decision,
apply to the Director-General to reconsider the relevant decision.

 (2) The application must be made by giving a written notice to the
Director-General for reconsideration that states precisely the grounds
of the person’s objections to the relevant decision.

 (3) After considering the written notice for reconsideration, the
Director-General may do any of the following (called in this section
the reconsidered decision):

    (a) confirm or rescind the relevant decision;

    (b) substitute or vary the relevant decision, and make any
         decision that the Director-General is competent to make
         under the provisions mentioned in subsection (1)(a), (b)
         and (c).

 (4) The Director-General’s reconsidered decision must be given in
writing to the person that requested the reconsideration.

 (5) If the person remains aggrieved by the reconsidered decision,
the person may, within 14 days after the person receives the
reconsidered decision, appeal in writing to the Minister.

(6) After considering the appeal, the Minister may —

    (a) confirm or rescind the reconsidered decision; or

    (b) substitute or vary the reconsidered decision, and make any
         decision that the Director-General is competent to make

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        50

          under the provisions mentioned in subsection (1)(a), (b)
          and (c).

(7) The Minister’s decision on the appeal is final.

 (8) The Minister’s decision on the appeal must be given to the
appellant in writing.

 (9) A relevant decision takes effect despite any request for a
reconsideration of the relevant decision, unless the Director-General
otherwise directs; and a reconsidered decision takes effect despite any
appeal against the reconsidered decision under subsection (5), unless
the Minister otherwise directs.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Designation of persons to hear appeals

 33M.—(1) The Minister may designate —

       (a) any Minister of State, Senior Minister of State,
            Parliamentary Secretary or Senior Parliamentary
            Secretary, for his or her Ministry; or

       (b) any public officer in his or her Ministry,

to hear and determine (in the Minister’s place) any appeal under
section 33L.

 (2) Any reference in section 33L to the Minister includes a
reference to the Minister of State, Senior Minister of State,
Parliamentary Secretary, Senior Parliamentary Secretary or public
officer so designated under subsection (1).

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Use of electronic service for making applications, etc.

 33N.—(1) The Director-General may permit —

       (a) an application to him or her under this Part; or

       (b) a lodgment of any document or information with him or
            her for the purposes of this Part,

to be made through the electronic service described in section 42AA
of the Building Control Act 1989.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

51  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

 (2) Where a person uses the electronic service mentioned in
subsection (1) to make an application to or a lodgment with the
Director-General, the Director-General may serve on the person any
acknowledgment, approval, certificate, direction, notice, permit or
other document in connection with the application or lodgment, by
sending it to the person’s account with the electronic service.

 (3) Service of a document on a person under subsection (2) takes
effect at the time when an electronic record of the document reaches
the person’s account with the electronic service.

(4) This section applies despite anything to the contrary in this Act.

 (5) In this section, “electronic record” has the meaning given by
section 2(1) of the Electronic Transactions Act 2010.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Registration, appointment and duties of registered inspectors

 34.—(1) The Director-General must keep and maintain a register in
which must be entered the names and prescribed particulars of all
persons registered under this section as registered inspectors.

 (2) The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, by
regulations provide for —

       (a) the manner and form in which the register is to be kept and
            open for inspection;

       (b) the manner of making applications by persons to be
            registered inspectors;

       (c) the qualifications of registered inspectors and their
            appointment;

       (d) the duties and responsibilities of registered inspectors; and

       (e) the circumstances in which the registration may be
            cancelled.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        52

          PART 10

ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION CONTROL MEASURES

Principal contractor to prevent pollution from construction
site

 35.—(1) A principal contractor of a construction site who has
control of the construction site must not permit any person to commit
an offence specified under section 14, 15 or 17 (called in this section
the offence).

 (2) Where there is a contravention of section 14, 15 or 17 at any
construction site, it is presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the
principal contractor of the construction site —

(a) had control of the construction site;

(b) had knowledge of the commission of the offence at the
     construction site; and

          (c) had permitted the commission of the offence at the
              construction site.

 (3) The presumptions provided for in subsection (2)(b) and (c) are
not rebutted unless the defendant proves that the defendant had
exercised due diligence to prevent the commission of the offence at
the construction site.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (3), a defendant is not to be
presumed to have exercised due diligence unless the defendant had
taken all reasonable measures to prevent the offence from being
committed at the construction site, including all the measures
prescribed under subsection (5) in respect of the construction site.

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (4), the Agency may, with the
approval of the Minister, by notification in the Gazette, prescribe the
measures that the principal contractor of the construction site is
required to take.

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to the same punishment for
an offence under section 14, 15 or 17, as the case may be.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

53  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

 (7) In this section, “principal contractor” means a person who has
entered into a contract with an owner, a developer or a lessee of a
property or agent of the owner, developer or lessee for the purpose of
carrying out any construction works on the property.

Study on pollution control

 36.—(1) The Director-General may, by written notice, require any
person intending to carry out any activity that, in the opinion of the
Director‑General, is likely to cause substantial pollution of the
environment or increase the level of such pollution —

       (a) to carry out a study on environmental pollution control and
            related matters;

       (b) to submit for the Director‑General’s approval, within the
            time that may be specified by the Director‑General, a
            proposal for the implementation of any measures to
            prevent, reduce or control pollution of the environment;
            and

       (c) to implement any measures to prevent, reduce or control
            pollution of the environment that the Director‑General may
            approve or specify.

 (2) The study mentioned in subsection (1) must be conducted in the
manner that the Director‑General may, by written notice, require, and
for this purpose, the Director‑General may issue guidelines for the
conduct of the study.

 (3) The Director-General may, by written notice, if he or she
considers it necessary —

       (a) require any modification or addition to be made to the
            measures proposed by the person under subsection (1)(b);
            or

       (b) require the person to conduct a further study.

 (4) Any person who fails to comply with a notice made under
subsection (1) or (3) shall be guilty of an offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        54

Self-monitoring and submission of results

 37.—(1) The Director-General may, by written notice, require the
owner or occupier of any premises from which any air impurity, trade
effluent or hazardous substance is generated and emitted into the
atmosphere, discharged into the public sewerage system or any land,
drain or inland waters to install suitable monitoring equipment or
systems at any point along the line of discharge, to monitor the quality
or quantity of such emission or discharge or both.

 (2) The owner or occupier of any premises with monitoring
equipment or systems installed must —

(a) ensure that the equipment or systems are working in a
     proper and efficient manner;

(b) keep a proper record of all monitoring results; and

          (c) submit the records to the Director‑General as the
              Director‑General may require.

 (3) Any monitoring result which shows that any standard
prescribed in the regulations has not been complied with is, until
the contrary is proved, admissible as evidence in any proceedings
against the owner or occupier of the premises for failure to comply
with any provision of this Act.

 (4) Without limiting subsection (3), the Director‑General may, by
written notice, require the owner or occupier of the premises to install
further suitable devices or systems to prevent the emission of air
impurities, discharge of trade effluent or emission or discharge of any
hazardous substance, if the level of emission or discharge fails to
comply with the prescribed standards or requirements.

 (5) Any person who, without the written consent of the
Director‑General, alters or causes to be altered any monitoring
equipment or system mentioned in subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

Regulations for mandatory insurance

 38.—(1) The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations to require an owner or occupier of industrial or trade
premises or a person who handles, stores, transports or uses

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

55  Management Act 1999                                2020 Ed.

hazardous substances to take out and maintain policies of insurance in
such circumstances and against liabilities for any risks, costs or
damages that may be prescribed in the regulations.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the regulations may provide
for —

    (a) the terms and conditions including any minimum limit of
         indemnity of any policy of insurance required to be taken
         out or maintained under subsection (1);

    (b) the form of the certificate of insurance; and

    (c) the different terms and conditions in different
        circumstances.

Power to prohibit work and processes in certain circumstances

 39.—(1) Where the Agency has reason to believe that the emission
of air impurities, the discharge of trade effluent or the emission or
discharge of any hazardous substance or toxic substance from any
premises is likely to cause pollution of the environment or be
injurious to public health or safety, the Agency may by order direct
the owner or occupier of the premises —

       (a) to cease immediately the carrying on of any trade or
            industrial process, or operation of any fuel burning
            equipment or industrial plant, in or on the premises
            which produces the air impurities, trade effluent,
            hazardous substance or toxic substance in or for the
            period that may be specified in the order;

       (b) to cease immediately the emission of air impurities,
            discharge of trade effluent, emission or discharge of
            hazardous substance or toxic substance into the
            atmosphere or any land, drain or inland waters; or

       (c) to take steps that may be specified in the order to collect,
            store and treat the trade effluent, hazardous substance or
            toxic substance either indefinitely or until the steps
            specified in the order have been taken and to treat the
            trade effluent, hazardous substance or toxic substance

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        56

          before it is discharged into any public sewerage system,
          drain or inland waters.

 (2) The owner or occupier of any premises who fails to comply with
an order made under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to both and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $2,000
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (3) Where the owner or occupier of any premises has failed to
comply with an order made under subsection (1), the
Director‑General may, at all reasonable times, enter upon the
premises and take such measures and execute such work as may be
necessary to comply with the order.

 (4) Any person who is aggrieved by an order made under
subsection (1) may, within 30 days from the date of the order,
appeal to the General Division of the High Court which may rescind
or vary the order.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (5) Even though an appeal has been made under subsection (4), an
aggrieved person must comply with the order pending the outcome of
the appeal to the General Division of the High Court and the
Director‑General may exercise the powers conferred under
subsection (3).

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Advisory and technical committees

 40.—(1) The Agency may, from time to time, appoint any advisory
or technical committees that the Agency thinks necessary for any of
the purposes of this Act.

 (2) The composition of such committees and the terms of
appointment of the members are to be determined by the Agency.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

57                   Management Act 1999       2020 Ed.

                             PART 10A

    GREENHOUSE GAS CONTROL

    Division 1 — Preliminary

Interpretation of this Part

40A. In this Part —

    “competent person” means any individual —

    (a) who meets all the requirements that the individual
         must satisfy to be a competent person, as published
         and updated from time to time on the Agency’s
         official website; and

    (b) whose name is listed under any registered GHG
         entity in the register mentioned in section 40O, as a
         competent person;

    “effective date” —

    (a) in relation to any GHG goods of any class,
         description or type, means the date on which those
         GHG goods become regulated goods as specified in
         an order under section 40B; and

    (b) in relation to any GHG works, means the date on
         which those GHG works become regulated GHG
         works as specified in an order under section 40K;

    “GHG goods” means any device, appliance, equipment, article
       or thing that requires any greenhouse gas (whether or not in
       its gaseous state) for its use or operation, and includes 2 or
       more such devices, appliances, equipment, articles or things
       that are interconnected, and interdependent or interacting, so
       as to form a system carrying out one or more functions;

    “GHG works” means any activity, or any series of activities
       (including ancillary activities), that involves the use or
       handling of any greenhouse gas;

    “global warming potential”, in relation to a greenhouse gas or a
       blend or mixture of greenhouse gases, means the climatic
       warming potential of the greenhouse gas or the blend or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        58

          mixture (as the case may be) relative to the climatic warming
          potential of carbon dioxide (calculated in terms of the
          100‑year warming potential of one kilogram of the
          greenhouse gas or the blend or mixture of greenhouse
          gases (as the case may be) relative to one kilogram of carbon
          dioxide), as published and updated from time to time on the
          Agency’s official website;

“global warming potential limit”, in relation to any class,
   description or type of regulated goods, means the prescribed
   maximum allowable global warming potential of the
   greenhouse gas or the blend or mixture of greenhouse
   gases required for the use or operation of that class,
   description or type of regulated goods;

“greenhouse gas” means any of the following:

          (a) any substance that is specified as a greenhouse gas in
               the prescribed IPCC Assessment Report issued by the
               Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change;

          (b) any other substance that is prescribed as a greenhouse
               gas for the purposes of this Part;

“label”, in relation to any regulated goods, includes marking or
   affixing a label to the regulated goods;

“manufacture” means to make, fabricate, produce or process any
   GHG goods and includes —

          (a) the adapting for sale of any GHG goods; and

          (b) the altering, ornamenting or finishing or the
               assembling or processing in any form of any GHG
               goods;

“owner”, in relation to any GHG goods, includes the person —

          (a) having control of the GHG goods; or

          (b) receiving or entitled to receive any rent or charge for
               the use of the GHG goods;

“registered GHG entity” means any person that is registered as a
   registered GHG entity under section 40M(4)(a);

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

59  Management Act 1999                              2020 Ed.

    “registered supplier” means any importer or manufacturer that is
       registered as a registered supplier under section 40E(5);

    “regulated GHG works” means any GHG works of a class,
       description or type prescribed as regulated GHG works under
       section 40K;

    “regulated goods” means any GHG goods of a class, description
       or type prescribed as regulated goods under section 40B;

    “supply”, in relation to any GHG goods, means —

    (a) the supply of the GHG goods by way of sale, lease,
         loan, hire or hire‑purchase;

    (b) the supply of the GHG goods in connection with any
         agreement; or

    (c) an offer to supply the GHG goods in accordance with
        paragraph (a) or (b).

                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

            Division 2 — Measures relating to GHG goods

             Subdivision (1) — Restrictions on supplies of
                               regulated goods

Regulated goods

 40B. The Minister may, after consultation with the Agency, by
order in the Gazette, prescribe any class, description or type of GHG
goods to be regulated goods for the purposes of this Part from and
including the date specified in the order, and may prescribe —

       (a) any class, description or type of GHG goods to be
            regulated goods only under prescribed circumstances;

       (b) any class, description or type of GHG goods to be
            regulated goods under different prescribed circumstances
            for different provisions of this Part; and

       (c) different classes, descriptions and types of GHG goods to
            be regulated goods for different provisions of this Part.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        60

Restriction on importers and manufacturers

 40C.—(1) Without affecting section 40D, a person that imports or
manufactures any GHG goods (called in this Part an importer or a
manufacturer, respectively) must not supply those GHG goods in
Singapore on or after the effective date on which those GHG goods
become regulated goods, unless the importer or manufacturer is a
registered supplier for those regulated goods.

 (2) A person that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

Restrictions on supplies and imports of regulated goods

 40D.—(1) Subject to this section, on or after the effective date on
which GHG goods of a particular class, description or type become
regulated goods, a person must not —

       (a) supply in Singapore any GHG goods that are such
            regulated goods (whether the GHG goods were imported
            into Singapore or manufactured in Singapore by the person
            or another person), if —

               (i) the GHG goods do not comply with one or more of
                   the requirements mentioned in subsection (4) which
                   are prescribed as being applicable to such regulated
                   goods and not waived under section 40Y for those
                   GHG goods; and

              (ii) the supply is made —

                    (A) by the person to another person in the course or
                          furtherance of the firstmentioned person’s
                          trade or business; or

                     (B) by the person to another person in furtherance
                          of the second-mentioned person’s trade or
                          business; or

       (b) import for the person’s own use any GHG goods that are
            such regulated goods, where the GHG goods do not
            comply with one or more of the requirements mentioned in

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

61  Management Act 1999                          2020 Ed.

    subsection (4) which are prescribed as being applicable to
    such regulated goods and not waived under section 40Y for
    those GHG goods.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1)(a) and (b), a person is regarded
as making a supply of, or importing for the person’s own use, GHG
goods (but only to the extent of those goods), even where those GHG
goods are combined with other goods or systems and supplied or
imported (as the case may be) together with the other goods or
systems as a whole.

 (3) A person that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000.

 (4) For the purpose of subsection (1), the requirements that may be
prescribed as applicable to any regulated goods are as follows:

    (a) the regulated goods must be registered;

    (b) the regulated goods must conform to either or both of the
         following:

    (i) the global warming potential of the greenhouse gas
        or the blend or mixture of greenhouse gases required
        for the use or operation of the regulated goods must
        not exceed the global warming potential limit for
        such regulated goods;

    (ii) any other requirement prescribed for the regulated
         goods relating to environmental protection and
         management;

    (c) the regulated goods must be labelled with the information
        prescribed for such regulated goods, in the manner
        prescribed, or allowed by the Director-General in any
        particular case;

    (d) the regulated goods must be accompanied by the
         information prescribed for such regulated goods relating
         to their environmental impact (including the type, amount
         and global warming potential of the greenhouse gas or the
         blend or mixture of greenhouse gases required for the use

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        62

          or operation of the regulated goods), and to the
          environmental protection and management measures
          adopted in relation to the regulated goods, in the manner
          prescribed, or allowed by the Director-General in any
          particular case;

          (e) information prescribed for the regulated goods relating to
              their environmental impact (including the type, amount
              and global warming potential of the greenhouse gas or the
              blend or mixture of greenhouse gases required for the use
              or operation of the regulated goods), and to the
              environmental protection and management measures
              adopted in relation to the regulated goods, must be
              disseminated in the manner prescribed, or allowed by the
              Director‑General in any particular case.

 (5) Without affecting section 75, subsection (1)(a) does not apply to
a supply of any GHG goods that are regulated goods in any of the
following circumstances:

(a) the GHG goods are supplied as part of any premises by the
     developer of the premises, if —

          (i) the developer did not import or manufacture the
              GHG goods; and

          (ii) the GHG goods comply with the requirements under
               subsection (4) applicable to such regulated goods at
               the time the agreement for the supply of the GHG
               goods to the developer was entered into;

(b) the GHG goods are supplied by a participant in the supply
     chain for the supply of the GHG goods by the developer
     mentioned in paragraph (a), if the GHG goods comply with
     the requirements under subsection (4) applicable to such
     regulated goods at the time the agreement for the supply of
     the GHG goods was entered into.

 (6) Without affecting subsection (5) or section 75, subsection (1)(a)
does not apply to a supply of any GHG goods that are regulated goods
prescribed for the purposes of this subsection if —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

63  Management Act 1999                                2020 Ed.

    (a) the supply is by a participant in the supply chain for the
         supply of the GHG goods to a person (other than a person
         acting in the capacity of a developer) that intends to
         construct or is constructing, or is causing to be constructed,
         any premises;

    (b) the GHG goods are to be used in the premises;

    (c) the premises are to be occupied by the person mentioned in
        paragraph (a);

    (d) the person did not import or manufacture the GHG goods;
         and

    (e) the GHG goods comply with the requirements under
        subsection (4) applicable to such regulated goods at the
        time the agreement for the supply of the GHG goods was
        entered into.

 (7) In this section, “developer” means a person that carries on the
business of constructing or causing to be constructed any premises for
sale or lease.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

            Subdivision (2) — Registration of suppliers and
                               regulated goods

Registration of suppliers and regulated goods

 40E.—(1) Any importer or manufacturer that wishes to be
registered as a registered supplier for the purposes of section 40C
must apply to the Director-General under subsection (4) to be
registered as such.

 (2) Any importer or manufacturer that wishes to register any
regulated goods for the purposes of section 40D(1) (read with
section 40D(4)(a)) must apply to the Director‑General under
subsection (4) for such registration.

 (3) For the purpose of subsection (2) —

       (a) an importer or a manufacturer that intends to import into
            Singapore for its own use, or for supply in Singapore, any
            GHG goods that are regulated goods required to be

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        64

          registered under section 40D, must register such regulated
          goods even if another importer or manufacturer has already
          registered such regulated goods; and

(b) if the firstmentioned importer or manufacturer in
     paragraph (a) fails to so register such regulated goods,
     then the regulated goods are not regarded as registered in
     relation to the firstmentioned importer or manufacturer,
     despite the registration by the second-mentioned importer
     or manufacturer.

(4) Every application under this section must —

(a) be made in the form and manner that the Director‑General
     requires; and

(b) be accompanied by —

          (i) the prescribed fee, if any; and

          (ii) any documents and information that the
               Director‑General requires to decide on the
               application.

 (5) The Director-General may register, subject to any conditions
that the Director-General thinks fit to impose, or refuse to register —

(a) any applicant as a registered supplier; or

(b) any class, description or type of regulated goods that the
     applicant intends to supply in Singapore or import into
     Singapore for the applicant’s own use.

 (6) The Director-General may, at any time, impose any condition,
or modify or revoke any condition imposed, on a registration.

 (7) The Director-General must, before imposing or modifying any
condition under subsection (6), give written notice to the holder of the
registration —

(a) stating the proposed condition or modification, as the case
     may be; and

(b) specifying the time within which the holder of the
     registration may make written representations to the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

65  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

    Director‑General with respect to the proposed condition or
    modification.

 (8) Where the holder of the registration makes any written
representations under subsection (7)(b), the Director‑General must
consider the written representations and the Director‑General’s
decision must be given to the holder of the registration in writing.

 (9) The registration of any registered supplier or any class,
description or type of regulated goods is not transferable without
the Director-General’s written approval.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

Duration and renewal of registration

 40F.—(1) The registration of any registered supplier remains valid
unless withdrawn or revoked under section 40G.

 (2) The registration of any regulated goods, including any renewal
of such registration, is valid for 3 years unless earlier withdrawn or
revoked under section 40G.

 (3) An application to renew the registration of any regulated goods
must be made before the expiry of the registration and must —

       (a) be made in the form and manner that the Director‑General
            requires; and

       (b) be accompanied by —

               (i) the prescribed fee, if any; and

              (ii) any documents and information that the
                   Director‑General requires to decide on the
                   application.

 (4) The Director-General may renew the registration of any
regulated goods subject to any conditions that the Director‑General
thinks fit to impose, or refuse to renew such registration.

 (5) The Director-General may, at any time, impose any condition,
or modify or revoke any condition imposed, on a renewal of
registration.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        66

 (6) The Director-General must, before imposing or modifying any
condition under subsection (5), give written notice to the holder of the
registration —

(a) stating the proposed condition or modification, as the case
     may be; and

(b) specifying the time within which the holder of the
     registration may make written representations to the
     Director-General with respect to the proposed condition
     or modification.

 (7) Where the holder of the registration makes any written
representations under subsection (6)(b), the Director-General must
consider the written representations and the Director‑General’s
decision must be given to the holder of the registration in writing.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

Withdrawal or revocation of registration

 40G.—(1) The Director-General may withdraw the registration —

       (a) of any registered supplier where the registered supplier
            applies to the Director‑General to withdraw the registered
            supplier’s registration as such; or

       (b) of any regulated goods obtained by a registered supplier or
            a person that imports GHG goods that are such regulated
            goods for the person’s own use, where the registered
            supplier or person applies to the Director‑General to
            withdraw such registration.

 (2) The Director-General may revoke the registration of any
registered supplier after giving written notice to the registered
supplier and after any inquiry that the Director‑General thinks fit —

       (a) if the Director-General is satisfied that the registered
            supplier procured the registration by providing any
            particulars, information or document, or by making any
            statement or representation, to the Director‑General which
            is false or misleading in any material particular;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

67  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

    (b) if the Director-General is satisfied that the registered
         supplier has contravened, is contravening or is likely to
         contravene any condition of the registration;

    (c) if the registered supplier has been convicted of an offence
        under section 40D(3) of supplying regulated goods that do
        not meet any requirement under section 40D(4)(b)
        applicable to the regulated goods; or

    (d) in the event of such other occurrence or in such other
         circumstances as may be prescribed.

 (3) The Director-General may revoke the registration of any
regulated goods obtained by a registered supplier or a person
importing GHG goods that are such regulated goods for the person’s
own use (as the case may be), after giving written notice to the
registered supplier or person, and after any inquiry that the
Director‑General thinks fit, if the Director‑General is satisfied that —

    (a) any GHG goods supplied by the registered supplier or
         imported by the person that are such regulated goods do
         not conform with the results of any test or examination
         provided by the registered supplier or person to the
         Director‑General under this Part in respect of such
         regulated goods;

    (b) any GHG goods supplied by the registered supplier or
         imported by the person that are such regulated goods do
         not meet any requirement under section 40D(4) applicable
         to such regulated goods and not waived under section 40Y
         for those GHG goods supplied or imported;

    (c) a modification to any GHG goods that are such regulated
        goods has resulted in a change that affects the global
        warming potential of the greenhouse gas or the blend or
        mixture of greenhouse gases required for the use or
        operation of such regulated goods;

    (d) the registered supplier or person procured the registration
         of such regulated goods by providing any particulars,
         information or document, or by making any statement or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        68

          representation, to the Director‑General which is false or
          misleading in any material particular;

          (e) the registered supplier or person has contravened, is
              contravening or is likely to contravene any condition of
              the registration of such regulated goods; or

          (f) the registered supplier or person has contravened, is
              contravening or is likely to contravene any provision of
              this Act, or any regulations made under section 77, in
              relation to such regulated goods.

 (4) The Director-General’s decision must be given to the registered
supplier or person (as the case may be) in writing and, where the
registration is revoked, together with the grounds for the revocation.

 (5) Where the registration of any regulated goods obtained by a
registered supplier has been withdrawn under subsection (1)(b) or
revoked under subsection (3), the Director‑General may at any time
direct the registered supplier to notify every person —

(a) to whom the registered supplier has supplied any GHG
     goods that are such regulated goods; and

(b) who (in the course of any trade or business) supplies any
     GHG goods that are such regulated goods in Singapore,

of the withdrawal or revocation of the registration.

 (6) A registered supplier or person that, without reasonable excuse,
fails to comply with a direction under subsection (5) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

Register of registered suppliers and regulated goods

 40H.—(1) The Director-General must establish and maintain a
register in which is entered such particulars of registered suppliers
and the classes, descriptions or types of GHG goods that are regulated
goods registered under section 40E, as the Director‑General
determines.

 (2) Where the registration of any registered supplier or of any
regulated goods has been withdrawn or revoked or has expired (as the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

69  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

case may be), or the Director-General is satisfied that any registered
supplier has been wound up or dissolved or has otherwise ceased to
exist or ceased to supply any GHG goods that are regulated goods, the
Director‑General may —

    (a) remove the particulars of the registered supplier or the
         regulated goods from the register; or

    (b) indicate the fact of the withdrawal, revocation, expiry or
         cessation (as the case may be) against the particulars of the
         registered supplier or the regulated goods in the register, as
         the case may be.

 (3) The Director-General may, upon an application by any person
accompanied by the prescribed fee (if any), provide a certified copy
of an entry in the register to that person.

 (4) Where the Director-General considers it necessary or expedient
in the interest of the public, the Director‑General may publish a list of
the names and addresses of registered suppliers and a list of the
regulated goods registered under each registered supplier on the
Agency’s official website.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

Maintenance of records

 40I.—(1) A registered supplier, and a person importing any GHG
goods that are regulated goods for the person’s own use, must keep
and maintain complete and accurate records containing such
information, and in accordance with such requirements, as may be
prescribed in regulations made under section 77.

 (2) The registered supplier or person mentioned in subsection (1)
must —

       (a) retain the records mentioned in that subsection for at least
            the prescribed period;

       (b) during the prescribed period, make available for inspection
            by the Director-General or any authorised officer, the
            records mentioned in that subsection when so requested by
            the Director‑General or any authorised officer; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        70

          (c) submit to the Director-General or any authorised officer
              the records mentioned in that subsection in the time
              specified by the Director‑General or authorised officer.

 (3) A registered supplier or person that contravenes subsection (1)
or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
a fine not exceeding $2,000.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

                        Subdivision (3) — Appeals

Appeal against decisions made under sections 40E, 40F, 40G
and 40U

 40J.—(1) Any person that is aggrieved by a decision of the
Director‑General (called in this section a relevant decision) —

       (a) to refuse to register the person as a registered supplier, or to
            refuse to register any regulated goods, under
            section 40E(5);

       (b) to refuse to renew the registration of any regulated goods
            under section 40F(4);

       (c) to impose or modify any condition on the person’s
            registration as a registered supplier, or the registration of
            any regulated goods, under section 40E(6) or the renewal
            of the registration of any regulated goods under
            section 40F(5);

       (d) to revoke the registration of any registered supplier under
            section 40G(2) or the registration of any regulated goods
            under section 40G(3); or

       (e) to give a direction to the person under section 40G(5) or
            40U,

may, within 14 days after the person receives the relevant decision,
apply to the Director‑General (by giving a written notice for
reconsideration that states precisely the grounds of the person’s
objections to the relevant decision) to reconsider the relevant
decision.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

71  Management Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

 (2) After considering the written notice for reconsideration, the
Director‑General may —

    (a) confirm the relevant decision;

    (b) rescind the relevant decision; or

    (c) substitute or vary the relevant decision, and make any
        decision which the Director‑General is competent to make
        under section 40E(5) or (6), 40F(4) or (5) or 40G(2) or (3),
        or give any direction which the Director‑General is
        competent to give under section 40G(5) or 40U, as the
        case may be,

(called in this section the reconsidered decision).

 (3) The Director-General’s reconsidered decision must be given in
writing to the person that requested the reconsideration.

 (4) If the person remains aggrieved by the reconsidered decision,
the person may, within 14 days after the person receives the
reconsidered decision, appeal in writing to the Minister.

(5) After considering the appeal, the Minister may —

    (a) confirm the reconsidered decision;

    (b) rescind the reconsidered decision; or

    (c) substitute or vary the reconsidered decision, and make any
        decision which the Director‑General is competent to make
        under section 40E(5) or (6), 40F(4) or (5) or 40G(2) or (3),
        or give any direction which the Director‑General is
        competent to give under section 40G(5) or 40U, as the
        case may be.

(6) The Minister’s decision on the appeal is final.

 (7) The Minister’s decision on the appeal must be given to the
appellant in writing.

 (8) A relevant decision takes effect despite any request for a
reconsideration of the relevant decision, unless the Director‑General
otherwise directs, and a reconsidered decision takes effect despite an
appeal against the reconsidered decision under subsection (4), unless
the Minister otherwise directs.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        72

 (9) A person that, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a
direction given to the person by the Minister under subsection (5)(c)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to —

(a) in the case where the direction is a direction which the
     Director‑General is competent to give under
     section 40G(5) — a fine not exceeding $2,000; and

(b) in the case where the direction is a direction which the
     Director‑General is competent to give under
     section 40U — a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to
     imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to both
     and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
     exceeding $2,000 for every day or part of a day during
     which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                    [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

      Division 3 — Measures relating to regulated GHG works

               Subdivision (1) — Restrictions relating to
                            regulated GHG works

Regulated GHG works

 40K. The Minister may, after consultation with the Agency, by
order in the Gazette, prescribe any class, description or type of GHG
works to be regulated GHG works for the purposes of this Part from
and including the date specified in the order.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

Restrictions relating to regulated GHG works

 40L.—(1) A person must not —

       (a) carry on the business of carrying out any regulated GHG
            works; or

       (b) hold the person out (whether by an advertisement or any
            other means) as authorised under this Act to carry out any
            regulated GHG works,

unless the person —

       (c) is a registered GHG entity for such regulated GHG works;
            and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

73  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

    (d) has, except where the person is granted a waiver under
         section 40Y —

    (i) no fewer than the number of competent persons
        prescribed for the carrying out of such regulated
        GHG works; or

    (ii) one or more individuals that are under the direct
         supervision of no fewer than the number of
         competent persons prescribed for the carrying out
         of such regulated GHG works.

 (2) Unless granted a waiver under section 40Y, a person that wishes
to have any regulated GHG works carried out must engage a
registered GHG entity to carry out those works.

 (3) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) applies even if the person
mentioned in that subsection is a competent person.

 (4) A person that contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

            Subdivision (2) — Registration of GHG entities

Registration of GHG entities

 40M.—(1) Any person that wishes to be registered as a registered
GHG entity in relation to any regulated GHG works for the purposes
of section 40L must apply to the Director‑General under
subsection (2) to be registered as such.

 (2) Every application under subsection (1) must —

       (a) be made in the form and manner that the Director‑General
            requires; and

       (b) be accompanied by —

               (i) the prescribed fee, if any; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        74

          (ii) any documents and information that the
               Director‑General requires to decide on the
               application.

 (3) The Director-General must not register any person as a
registered GHG entity unless —

(a) the person —

          (i) has a Unique Entity Number issued by the

              Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority

              established by section 3 of the Accounting and
              Corporate Regulatory Authority Act 2004*; or

          (ii) is, or belongs to a class of persons, prescribed by the
               Minister for the purpose of this subsection; and

(b) except where the person is granted a waiver under
     section 40Y, the person has at least the prescribed
     number of competent persons to carry out or to directly
     supervise the carrying out of the regulated GHG works,
     being —

          (i) any of the following where the person is an
              individual carrying on business as a sole proprietor:

          (A) the individual;

          (B) any employee of the individual;

          (ii) any of the following where the person is an
               unincorporated partnership:

          (A) any partner in the partnership;

          (B) any employee of the partnership; or

            (iii) any employee of the person in any other case.

                                               [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

(4) The Director-General may —

(a) subject to any conditions that the Director-General thinks
     fit to impose, register any applicant as a registered GHG
     entity; or

(b) refuse to register any applicant as a registered GHG entity.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

75  Management Act 1999                            2020 Ed.

(5) The registration of a registered GHG entity —

    (a) is valid until it is withdrawn or revoked under section 40N;
         and

    (b) is not transferable without the Director-General’s written
         approval.

 (6) The Director-General may, at any time, impose any condition,
or modify or revoke any condition imposed, on a registration.

 (7) The Director-General must, before imposing or modifying any
condition under subsection (6), give written notice to the holder of the
registration —

    (a) stating the proposed condition or modification, as the case
         may be; and

    (b) specifying the time within which the holder of the
         registration may make written representations to the
         Director-General with respect to the proposed condition
         or modification.

 (8) Where the holder of the registration makes any written
representations under subsection (7)(b), the Director-General must
consider the written representations and the Director-General’s
decision must be given to the holder of the registration in writing.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

Withdrawal or revocation of registration

 40N.—(1) The Director-General may withdraw the registration of
any registered GHG entity if the registered GHG entity applies to the
Director-General to withdraw its registration as such.

 (2) The Director-General may revoke the registration of any
registered GHG entity after giving written notice to the registered
GHG entity and after any inquiry that the Director-General thinks
fit —

       (a) if the Director-General is satisfied that the registered GHG
            entity procured the registration by providing any
            particulars, information or document, or by making any
            statement or representation, to the Director-General which
            is false or misleading in any material particular;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        76

(b) if the registered GHG entity no longer satisfies any of the
     requirements in section 40M(3);

          (c) if the Director-General is satisfied that the registered GHG
              entity has contravened, is contravening or is likely to
              contravene —

          (i) any provision of this Act;

          (ii) any regulations made under section 77 in relation to
               this Division;

          (iii) any condition of the registration; or

          (iv) any requirements imposed under any written law in
               relation to the use or handling of any greenhouse gas
               (whether or not in its gaseous state); or

(d) in the event of such other occurrence or in such other
     circumstances as may be prescribed.

 (3) The Director-General’s decision must be given to the GHG
entity in writing and, where the registration is revoked, together with
the grounds for the revocation.

 (4) Where the registration of a person as a registered GHG entity
has been withdrawn under subsection (1) or revoked under
subsection (2), the Director-General may at any time direct the
person to notify every other person for whom the person is carrying
out or is intending to carry out any regulated GHG works, of the
withdrawal or revocation of the registration.

 (5) A person that, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a
direction given to the person under subsection (4) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

Register of registered GHG entities

 40O.—(1) The Director-General must establish and maintain a
register in which is entered such particulars of registered GHG
entities as the Director-General determines, including —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

77  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

    (a) the name and business address of each registered GHG
         entity;

    (b) the regulated GHG works that the registered GHG entity
         may carry out; and

    (c) in respect of any regulated GHG works mentioned in
        paragraph (b), the names and details of the competent
        persons who may carry out such regulated GHG works or
        under whose direct supervision such regulated GHG works
        may be carried out.

 (2) A registered GHG entity must, within the prescribed period,
inform the Director-General of any individual listed in the register
under the registered GHG entity as a competent person, who —

    (a) has ceased to be the sole proprietor, a partner or an
         employee (as the case may be) of the registered GHG
         entity; or

    (b) has ceased to satisfy the requirements mentioned in
         paragraph (a) of the definition of “competent person” in
         section 40A, or does not satisfy any requirement that has
         been changed or any new requirement included for the
         purpose of that paragraph of that definition.

 (3) A registered GHG entity that contravenes subsection (2) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) for a first offence, to a fine not exceeding $10,000; and

    (b) for a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not exceeding
         $20,000.

 (4) Where the registration of any registered GHG entity has been
withdrawn or revoked, or the Director-General is satisfied that any
registered GHG entity has been wound up or dissolved or has
otherwise ceased to exist or ceased to carry out any regulated GHG
works, the Director-General may —

    (a) remove the particulars of the registered GHG entity from
         the register; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        78

(b) indicate the fact of the withdrawal, revocation or cessation
     (as the case may be) against the particulars of the registered
     GHG entity in the register.

 (5) Where any individual listed in the register under a registered
GHG entity as a competent person has ceased to be the sole
proprietor, a partner or an employee (as the case may be) of the
registered GHG entity, or the Director-General is satisfied that any
such individual has ceased to or does not satisfy the requirements
mentioned in paragraph (a) of the definition of “competent person” in
section 40A, the Director-General may —

(a) remove the particulars of the individual from the register;
     or

(b) indicate the fact of the cessation or non-satisfaction (as the
     case may be) against the particulars of the individual in the
     register.

 (6) The Director-General may, upon an application by any person
accompanied by the prescribed fee (if any), provide a certified copy
of an entry in the register to that person.

 (7) Where the Director-General considers it necessary or expedient
in the interest of the public, the Director-General may publish a list of
the names and addresses of registered GHG entities, and the names of
the competent persons listed under any registered GHG entity, on the
Agency’s official website.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

     Subdivision (3) — Obligations of registered GHG entities
                           and competent persons

Obligations of registered GHG entity

 40P.—(1) Unless granted a waiver under section 40Y, a registered
GHG entity must, in relation to any regulated GHG works that the
registered GHG entity is registered to carry out —

       (a) carry out the regulated GHG works through —

               (i) no fewer than the number of competent persons
                   prescribed for such regulated GHG works; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

79  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

    (ii) one or more individuals that are under the direct
         supervision of no fewer than the number of
         competent persons prescribed for such regulated
         GHG works;

    (b) establish and maintain policies, procedures and processes
         for the regulated GHG works to be carried out safely and in
         the prescribed manner, and ensure that the regulated GHG
         works are carried out safely and in the prescribed manner;

    (c) ensure that the competent persons and individuals
        mentioned in paragraph (a)(i) and (ii) are provided with
        adequate and properly maintained equipment for carrying
        out the regulated GHG works;

    (d) keep and maintain complete and accurate records
         containing such information concerning the regulated
         GHG works and the individuals carrying out or
         supervising those works, in accordance with such
         requirements as may be prescribed in regulations made
         under section 77, and keep those records for at least the
         prescribed period;

    (e) during the prescribed period mentioned in paragraph (d),
        make available for inspection by the Director-General or
        any authorised officer, the records mentioned in that
        paragraph when so requested by the Director-General or
        any authorised officer; and

    (f) submit to the Director-General or any authorised officer
        the records mentioned in paragraph (d) in the time
        specified by the Director-General or authorised officer.

 (2) A registered GHG entity that contravenes subsection (1) shall
be guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

Obligations of competent person

 40Q.—(1) Unless granted a waiver under section 40Y, a competent
person carrying out or supervising the carrying out of any regulated
GHG works must —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        80

(a) comply with any policies, procedures and processes
     mentioned in section 40P(1)(b) in relation to the
     regulated GHG works; and

(b) ensure that the regulated GHG works are carried out safely
     and in the prescribed manner.

 (2) A competent person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) for a first offence, to a fine not exceeding $10,000; and

(b) for a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not exceeding
     $20,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
     further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a
     day during which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                    [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

                        Subdivision (4) — Appeals

Appeal against decisions made under sections 40M and 40N

 40R.—(1) Any person that is aggrieved by a decision of the
Director-General (called in this section a relevant decision) —

       (a) to refuse to register the person as a registered GHG entity
            under section 40M(4)(b);

       (b) to impose or modify any condition on the person’s
            registration as a registered GHG entity under
            section 40M(6);

       (c) to revoke the registration of any registered GHG entity
            under section 40N(2); or

       (d) to give a direction to the person under section 40N(4),

may, within 14 days after the person receives the relevant decision,
apply to the Director-General (by giving a written notice for
reconsideration that states precisely the grounds of the person’s
objections to the relevant decision) to reconsider the relevant
decision.

 (2) After considering the written notice for reconsideration, the
Director-General may —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

81  Management Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

    (a) confirm the relevant decision;

    (b) rescind the relevant decision; or

    (c) substitute or vary the relevant decision, and make any
        decision which the Director-General is competent to make
        under section 40M(4) or (6) or 40N(2) or (4), as the case
        may be,

(called in this section the reconsidered decision).

 (3) The Director-General’s reconsidered decision must be given in
writing to the person that requested the reconsideration.

 (4) If the person remains aggrieved by the reconsidered decision,
the person may, within 14 days after the person receives the
reconsidered decision, appeal in writing to the Minister.

(5) After considering the appeal, the Minister may —

    (a) confirm the reconsidered decision;

    (b) rescind the reconsidered decision; or

    (c) substitute or vary the reconsidered decision, and make any
        decision which the Director-General is competent to make
        under section 40M(4) or (6) or 40N(2) or (4), as the case
        may be.

(6) The Minister’s decision on the appeal is final.

 (7) The Minister’s decision on the appeal must be given to the
appellant in writing.

 (8) A relevant decision takes effect despite any request for a
reconsideration of the relevant decision, unless the Director-General
otherwise directs, and a reconsidered decision takes effect despite an
appeal against the reconsidered decision under subsection (4), unless
the Minister otherwise directs.

 (9) A person that, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a
direction given to the person by the Minister under subsection (5)(c)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        82

          Division 4 — Surveys, etc.

Environment impact surveys and investigations

 40S.—(1) The Director-General may, from time to time, undertake
investigations or surveys relating to the use of greenhouse gases and
levels of greenhouse gas emissions for the purposes of —

(a) assessing the environmental impact of certain goods,
     industries or activities; or

(b) advising the Minister or other public bodies concerning
     environmental policies.

 (2) For the purpose of any investigation or survey under
subsection (1), the Director-General may, by written notice, require
any person to provide (within the period and in the form and manner
specified in the written notice) any information relating to the use of
greenhouse gases by, and the greenhouse gas emissions of, that
person as the Director-General may require.

 (3) A person that, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
any written notice under subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

                 Division 5 — Enforcement of this Part

Monitoring powers for purposes of this Part

 40T.—(1) Without affecting Part 11, the Director-General or any
authorised officer may, for the purpose of administering or enforcing
this Part, exercise all or any of the following powers in relation to any
premises:

       (a) search the premises for any thing that may relate to
            compliance with this Part;

       (b) examine any activity conducted on the premises that may
            relate to compliance with this Part;

       (c) examine any thing on the premises that may relate to
            compliance with this Part;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

83  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

    (d) take photographs or make video or audio recordings or
         sketches on the premises of any activity or thing mentioned
         in paragraph (b) or (c);

    (e) carry out any tests or inspections that may relate to
        compliance with this Part;

    (f) affix or bring onto the premises, with any assistants and
        workmen that may be necessary, any meter or instrument
        and take readings from the meter or instrument, or take
        readings from any meter or instrument on the premises;

    (g) inspect any document on the premises that may relate to
         compliance with this Part, and (without payment) take
         extracts from, or make copies of, any such document;

    (h) take onto the premises any equipment and materials that
         the Director-General or authorised officer requires for the
         purpose of exercising powers in relation to the premises;

    (i) seize any thing found during the exercise of monitoring
        powers on the premises which the Director-General or
        authorised officer believes on reasonable grounds affords
        evidence of a contravention of this Part.

 (2) The Director-General or any authorised officer may, in addition
to the powers in subsection (1) —

    (a) compel any person who is able to operate any equipment at
         the premises to do so for the purpose of enabling the
         Director-General or authorised officer to ascertain whether
         the equipment, or a disk, tape or other storage device that
         can be used or associated with the equipment, contains
         information that is relevant to assessing compliance with
         this Part; and

    (b) if any information that is relevant to assessing compliance
         with this Part is found in the exercise of the power
         conferred under paragraph (a) —

    (i) produce, or compel the production of, the
        information in documentary form, and keep or
        copy the documents so produced; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        84

          (ii) transfer, or compel the transfer of, the information to
               a disk, tape or other storage device, and remove it
               from the premises.

                                                                    [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

Power to give directions

 40U.—(1) Where any GHG goods that are regulated goods are
supplied, or imported for a person’s own use, in contravention of
section 40D, the Director-General may give a direction mentioned in
subsection (2) in respect of those GHG goods (in such form and
manner that the Director-General thinks fit) to —

       (a) any person that supplied or so imported the GHG goods; or

       (b) any person that is the owner of the GHG goods,

and the person must comply with the direction.

 (2) A direction under subsection (1) may require the person to do all
or any of the following (at the person’s own expense) within the
period specified in the direction (or such longer time as the Director-
General may allow in the particular case):

       (a) cease the supply or import of any GHG goods that are such
            regulated goods, or the use of any such GHG goods, as the
            case may be;

       (b) take specified steps (which may include the carrying out of
            works specified in the direction) to ensure that —

               (i) the GHG goods conform to either or both of the
                   following:

                    (A) the global warming potential limit for the class,
                          description or type of regulated goods to which
                          the GHG goods belong;

                     (B) any other requirement prescribed for the class,
                          description or type of regulated goods to which
                          the GHG goods belong, relating to
                          environmental protection and management; or

              (ii) the impact of the GHG goods on the environment is
                   monitored or mitigated.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

85  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

 (3) Where the person fails to comply with any specified steps in the
direction, the Director-General may give a further direction to the
person for the person to cease the supply or import of any GHG goods
that are such regulated goods or the use of any such GHG goods (as
the case may be) in the time specified in the direction, and the person
must comply with the further direction.

 (4) The further direction under subsection (3) does not prevent
subsection (5) from applying to the failure mentioned in
subsection (3).

 (5) A person that, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a
direction given to the person under subsection (1) or a further
direction given to the person under subsection (3) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $2,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

Power to require samples

 40V.—(1) The Director-General or any authorised officer may, by
written notice, require any person that supplies any GHG goods or
imports any GHG goods for the person’s own use to provide (free of
charge), within the period and in the form and manner specified in the
written notice, samples of the GHG goods, or of any greenhouse gas
or blend or mixture of greenhouse gases used or contained in the
GHG goods, for the purpose of testing or analysis.

 (2) The power to require a person to provide any samples under
subsection (1) includes the power to require the extraction of the
samples to be carried out in the presence of the Director-General or
any authorised officer.

 (3) The Director-General or any authorised officer is entitled,
without payment, to retain any samples provided to the
Director‑General or authorised officer under subsection (1).

 (4) A person that, without reasonable excuse, fails to do anything
required of the person by a written notice under subsection (1) shall

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        86

be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

Power to require tests or examinations

 40W.—(1) The Director-General or any authorised officer may, for
the purpose of ascertaining whether any person has complied with
section 40D, 40P or 40Q, by written notice require the person to —

       (a) carry out any test or examination specified in the written
            notice; and

       (b) provide any report, document or information specified in
            the written notice concerning the test or examination.

 (2) A person that, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
any written notice under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

Data not to be falsified, etc.

 40X. Any person that —

       (a) makes any statement or declaration, or provides any
            document or information, to the Director-General or an
            authorised officer under this Part, knowing it to be false or
            misleading;

       (b) falsifies any information or data required to be submitted to
            the Director-General or an authorised officer under this
            Part; or

       (c) makes or causes to be made any entry or omission in any
            record, register or other document required to be kept
            under this Part, knowing it to be false or misleading, or
            makes any record containing a statement knowing it to be
            false or misleading,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3
months or to both.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

87  Management Act 1999                          2020 Ed.

Power of Director-General to waive requirements

 40Y. A person that, in any particular case, is unable to comply with
any requirement in section 40D, 40L(1)(d) or (2), 40M(3)(b), 40P(1)
or 40Q(1) may apply in writing to the Director-General for a waiver
and the Director-General may, upon being satisfied that there are
good reasons to do so, waive that requirement in relation to that
person —

    (a) in whole or in part; and

    (b) generally or for a specified period of time.

                                                                        [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

                                    PART 11

                              ENFORCEMENT

Default in compliance with notice or order

 41.—(1) Where a person on whom a notice or order under this Act
is served fails to comply with the notice or order within the time
specified in the notice or order —

       (a) the person shall, unless the person satisfies the court that
            the person has used all due diligence to comply with the
            notice or order, be guilty of an offence and shall, where no
            penalty is provided for such default, be liable on conviction
            to a fine not exceeding $20,000; and

       (b) the Director-General or any authorised officer may enter
            the premises under section 47 and execute the works
            specified in the notice or order.

 (2) Any expenses reasonably incurred by the Director‑General
under subsection (1)(b) may be recovered from the person in default,
and section 51 and, if that person is the owner of the premises,
section 53 apply in respect of those expenses.

 (3) Nothing in this section is to be construed as prohibiting the
Director‑General from carrying out any works specified in the notice
or order at the request of a person who has been served with the notice
or order upon an undertaking by that person to pay the costs and
expenses in executing the works.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        88

Appeal against notice or order

 42.—(1) Where a person on whom a notice or order mentioned in
section 28A(1) or 41(1) is served is aggrieved by the notice or
order —

(a) the person may, within 14 days from the date the notice or
     order is served and in the prescribed form and manner,
     appeal to the Minister; and

       (b) no liability to a fine under section 41(1)(a) arises nor,
            except as provided for in this section, may any proceedings
            be taken or work done under the notice or order until after
            the appeal is determined or abandoned.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

 (2) Where an appeal is brought under this section, the Minister may
dismiss or allow the appeal unconditionally or subject to any
conditions that the Minister considers fit, and any decision the
Minister makes on the appeal is final.

 (3) Where an appeal has been brought under this section, and the
Minister is of the opinion that —

(a) the non-execution of the notice or order will be injurious or
     dangerous to public health; and

(b) the immediate execution of the notice or order will not
     cause any injury to the person against whom the notice or
     order was made which cannot be compensated by
     damages,

the Minister may authorise the Director‑General immediately to
execute the work.

 (4) The Director-General must, if he or she carries out the work and
the appeal is successful, pay the costs and expenses of the work and
any damages sustained by the appellant by reason of the work.

 (5) The Director-General may, if he or she carries out the work and
the appeal is dismissed or abandoned, recover the costs and expenses
of the work from the appellant, and section 51 and, if the appellant is
the owner of the premises in respect of which the notice or order was

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

89  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

made, section 53 apply to any sum recoverable from the appellant
under this section.

Power to demand names and addresses

 43.—(1) The Director-General or any authorised officer may
require any owner or occupier of any premises or any principal
contractor mentioned in section 35 to —

       (a) give his or her name and address and any other proof of
            identity; and

       (b) furnish any other particulars,

that the Director-General or authorised officer may require for the
purposes of this Act.

 (2) Any person who, upon being required by the Director‑General
or any authorised officer to give his or her name and address or other
proof of identity or to furnish any particulars under subsection (1) —

       (a) refuses to do so;

       (b) wilfully misstates his or her name and address or proof of
            identity; or

       (c) furnishes false particulars,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000.

 (3) The Director-General may, by written notice, require any person
to furnish any other information that may be necessary for the
purposes of this Act.

 (4) Any person who fails without reasonable excuse to comply with
any requirement of subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

Powers of Director-General to examine and secure attendance

 44.—(1) The Director-General or any authorised officer may —

       (a) examine orally any person supposed to be acquainted with
            the facts and circumstances of matters under this Act, and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        90

          reduce to writing any statement made by the person so
          examined; and

(b) require by written order the attendance before himself or
     herself of any person, being within the limits of Singapore,
     who, from information given or otherwise, appears to be
     acquainted with the facts and circumstances of matters
     under this Act, and that person must attend as so required.

 (2) The person mentioned in subsection (1)(a) is bound to state
truly the facts and circumstances with which he or she is acquainted
concerning matters under this Act, except only that he or she may
decline to make, with regard to any fact or circumstance, a statement
which would have a tendency to expose him or her to a criminal
charge, penalty or forfeiture.

 (3) A statement made under this section by any person must be read
over to the person and must after correction (if necessary) be signed
by the person.

 (4) If any person fails to attend as required by an order under
subsection (1)(b), the Director‑General may report the failure to a
Magistrate who may thereupon issue a warrant to secure the
attendance of that person as required by the order.

Power to obtain information

 44A.—(1) The Director-General or an authorised officer may by
written notice require any licensee or other person to furnish, within a
reasonable period specified in the notice, and in the form and manner
that may be specified in the notice, all documents and information
which relate to any matter that the Director-General or authorised
officer considers necessary for the purposes of administering,
enforcing or monitoring compliance with any provision of this Act,
and which are within the knowledge of that person or in that person’s
custody or under that person’s control.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 28/02/2022]

 (2) The power to require a person to furnish any document or
information under subsection (1) includes the power —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

91  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

    (a) to require that person, or any person who is or was an
         officer or employee of that person, to provide an
         explanation of the document or information;

    (b) if the document or information is not furnished, to require
         that person to state, to the best of that person’s knowledge
         and belief, where it is; and

       (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
            form, to require the information to be made available to the
            Director-General or any authorised officer in legible form.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 28/02/2022]

 (3) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do
anything required of the person by notice under subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (4) Any person who —

    (a) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any document
         or information which the person has been required by a
         notice under subsection (1) to furnish; or

    (b) in furnishing any document or information required under
         subsection (1), makes any statement which the person
         knows to be false in a material particular or recklessly
         makes such a statement,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months or to both.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (5) If any person fails to comply with a notice under subsection (1),
the court may, on the application of the Director-General, make any
order that the court thinks fit to secure compliance with the notice and
the order may provide that all the costs or expenses of and incidental
to the application must be borne by the person or by any officer of a
company or other association who is responsible for the failure.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 28/02/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        92

 (6) Where a notice under subsection (1) is issued in connection with
investigations into a suspected offence under this Act, the Director-
General or any authorised officer may, at any time after the expiry of
the period specified in the notice, enter any building or place where
the Director-General or authorised officer has reason to believe that
any document or information, in respect of which it has given the
notice, may be found, and seize or take extracts or copies of that
document or information.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 28/02/2022]

 (7) The Director-General or any authorised officer is entitled
without payment to keep any document or information, or any copy
or extract thereof, furnished under subsection (1) or obtained under
subsection (6).

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 28/02/2022]

Powers of arrest

 45.—(1) The Director-General, an authorised officer or a police
officer may arrest any person whom the Director‑General or officer
has reason to believe has committed an offence under this Act, if the
name and address of the person are unknown to him or her and —

       (a) the person declines to give his or her name and address; or

       (b) there is reason to doubt the accuracy of the name and
            address, if given.

 (2) A person arrested under this section may be detained until his or
her name and address are correctly ascertained.

 (3) No person so arrested may be detained longer than is necessary
for bringing him or her before a court.

Director-General may act in cases of emergency

 46.—(1) Where the Director-General considers it necessary in the
case of an emergency, he or she may direct the immediate execution
of any work or the doing of any act being any work or act authorised
under this Act which is in his or her opinion necessary to prevent

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

93  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

injury or danger to public health or serious pollution of the
environment.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (2) Any expenses reasonably incurred by the Director‑General
under subsection (1) may be recovered from the person whose act or
omission resulted in the emergency or the owner of the premises
where the emergency originated, and section 51 and, if that person is
the owner of the premises, section 53 apply in respect of those
expenses.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

Power of entry

 47.—(1) The Director-General or any authorised officer may, for
the purposes of this Act, enter at all reasonable hours in the daytime
any premises with any assistants and workmen that are necessary for
the purpose of making any survey, inspection or investigation and
executing any work authorised by this Act or exercising any power
under section 40T.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

 (2) Unless the consent of the occupier has been obtained therefor, a
person must not enter into any dwelling house in actual occupation
under this section without 6 hours’ previous notice to the occupier.

 (3) For the purposes of this section, the Agency may, with the
approval of the Minister, declare that any class of premises is liable to
night inspection.

 (4) The Director-General or any authorised officer, with any
assistants and workmen that are necessary, may, at any time of the
day or night and without notice, enter using such force as may be
necessary and search or inspect any premises of the class specified in
the declaration mentioned in subsection (3).

Power to enter on land adjacent to works

 48.—(1) The Director-General or any authorised officer, with such
assistants and workmen as are necessary, may enter upon any land,
adjoining or being within 100 metres of any works by this Act
authorised to be executed —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        94

(a) for the purpose of depositing upon that land any soil,
     gravel, sand, lime, brick, stone or other materials; or

(b) for any other purposes connected with the formation of
     those works,

without making any previous payment, tender or deposit and doing as
little damage as may be in the exercise of the powers under this
subsection.

(2) The Director-General must compensate —

(a) the owner and the occupier for any temporary occupation
     or temporary damage of the land from time to time and as
     often as the temporary occupation is taken or the temporary
     damage done; and

(b) the owner for the permanent injury (if any) to the land.

 (3) Before the Director-General makes any use of any land under
subsection (1), he or she must give 7 days’ notice of his or her
intention to the owner and the occupier of the land.

Penalty for obstructing Director-General in his or her duty

 49. Any person who at any time —

       (a) hinders or obstructs the Director‑General or any authorised
            officer in the performance or execution of his or her duty or
            of any thing which he or she is empowered or required to
            do under this Act;

       (b) interferes with any work authorised to be executed under
            this Act; or

       (c) fails to facilitate by all reasonable means the entry and
            inspection of any premises by the Director‑General or any
            authorised officer or the examination of any equipment,
            industrial plant, container or the making of any tests which
            the Director‑General or any authorised officer is
            empowered under this Act to make,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months or to both and, in the case of a second or subsequent

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

95  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

conviction, to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

Powers of search and seizure

 50. If the Director-General has reason to believe that any hazardous
substance or toxic substance is being kept, stored, processed, treated,
discharged or deposited, or air impurities are being emitted, or any
hazardous substance or toxic substance or trade effluent is being
discharged without his or her consent, the Director‑General or any
authorised officer may —

       (a) search the premises and take possession of any substance
            found in the premises and reasonably believed to be or
            contain hazardous substances;

       (b) require the production of records, certificates, notices and
            documents relating or reasonably believed to relate to any
            dealing in or with hazardous substances or toxic
            substances, emission of air impurities or discharge of
            trade effluent or toxic substance wherever and by
            whomsoever kept and whether kept under the provisions
            of this Act or otherwise and take extracts therefrom;

       (c) take samples of any materials whether solid, liquid,
            gaseous or vapour found in the premises;

       (d) seal the samples and require the owner of the materials to
            send the samples to an analyst for analysis and bear any
            costs and expenses arising therefrom;

       (e) require the owner or analyst to submit the results of the
            analysis to the Director‑General;

        (f) take such photographs as he or she thinks necessary for the
            purposes of this Act; and

       (g) require any person whom he or she finds in the premises to
            produce his or her identity card or other identification
            papers for inspection for the purpose of an investigation or
            inquiry under this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        96

Power to examine motor vehicles

 50A.—(1) Where the Director-General or any authorised officer
has reason to suspect that an offence under this Act or the regulations
made under this Act has been committed in connection with the use of
a motor vehicle, the Director‑General or authorised officer may —

(a) examine the motor vehicle;

(b) require the owner or driver of the motor vehicle to provide
     his or her name and address and such other proof of
     identity; and

       (c) order the owner or driver of the motor vehicle to produce
            the same for an examination of vehicle emissions at any
            time and place that may be specified.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (2) Any person who without reasonable excuse fails to comply with
any requirement under this section shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

                                   PART 12

                COMPENSATION, DAMAGES, FEES,
                         COSTS AND EXPENSES

Compensation, damages, fees, costs and expenses to be
determined by Magistrate’s Court or District Court

 51.—(1) Except as otherwise provided, in all cases where
compensation, damages, fees, costs or expenses are provided under
this Act to be paid, the amount and (if necessary) the apportionment
of the amount and any question of liability is, in case of dispute, or
failure to pay, to be summarily ascertained and determined by a
Magistrate’s Court or, if the amount claimed exceeds the Magistrate’s
Court limit, by a District Court.

 (2) In any proceedings under subsection (1), the Magistrate’s Court
or the District Court may —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

97  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

    (a) inquire whether those expenses ought to be borne wholly
         or in part by some person other than the defendant in the
         proceedings;

    (b) make any order concerning the expenses or their
         apportionment that appears to the Court to be just; and

    (c) where those expenses were incurred under section 41(1)(b)
        by the Director‑General in carrying out any works
        specified in a notice, inquire whether any requirement
        specified in the notice was reasonable.

 (3) The Magistrate’s Court or the District Court is not to order the
expenses or any part of the expenses to be borne by any person other
than the defendant in the proceedings unless the Court is satisfied that
the other person has had due notice of the proceedings and an
opportunity of being heard.

 (4) If the amount of compensation, damages, fees, costs or expenses
is not paid by the party liable to pay it within 7 days after demand, that
amount may be reported to a Magistrate’s Court or a District Court
and recovered in the same way as if it were a fine imposed by a
Magistrate’s Court or a District Court.

 (5) An appeal lies to the General Division of the High Court from
any decision of a Magistrate’s Court or a District Court under this
section, and the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010
apply, with the necessary modifications, to all such appeals.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Fees, etc., payable to Agency

 51A. All fees, charges, composition fines and moneys collected
under this Act must be paid to the Agency.

Occupier may execute work where owner defaults in execution
of work

 52.—(1) Whenever an owner of any premises defaults in the
execution of any work required under this Act to be executed by the
owner, an occupier of the premises may, with the approval of the
Director‑General, cause the work to be executed.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        98

 (2) The expense of the work executed under subsection (1) must be
paid to the occupier by the owner of the premises or the amount may
be deducted from the rent from time to time becoming due from the
occupier to the owner.

 (3) The occupier of the premises may, in the absence of any special
agreement to the contrary, retain possession until the expense of the
work executed under subsection (1) has been fully reimbursed to the
occupier.

Recovery of costs and expenses payable by owners

 53.—(1) All sums payable by or recoverable from an owner of any
premises in respect of costs and expenses incurred by the Agency in
connection with the execution of any work which are under this Act
recoverable from an owner of any premises are, subject to and
without affecting any other rights of the Agency, a first charge on the
premises in respect of which the costs and expenses were incurred.

 (2) In addition to any other remedies conferred by this Act, the sum
may be recovered in the manner provided in this section, and the
person or persons liable to pay are the owner or owners at the time
when the work was completed.

 (3) If the sum remains unpaid at the expiry of the prescribed time, a
notice must be served upon the person or any one of the persons (if
more than one) liable to pay it, calling on the person or persons to pay
that sum together with a fee of any amount that may be prescribed for
the cost of the notice, within 15 days of the date the notice is served.

 (4) Without affecting section 66, if no person liable to pay the sum
can be found, such notice is deemed to have been duly served —

       (a) by posting the notice at the office of the Director‑General;
            and

       (b) by fixing a copy of the notice on some conspicuous part of
            the premises in respect of which the costs and expenses
            were incurred.

 (5) At the expiry of the period of 15 days or any further period that
the Director‑General may allow, if the sum or part of the sum remains

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
    Environmental Protection and

99  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

due and unpaid, it is deemed to be arrears and may be recovered as
provided in section 55.

 (6) The charge mentioned in subsection (1) attaches, and the
powers and remedies conferred by subsections (2) to (5) become
exercisable, as from the date the work is completed.

 (7) Despite any change in the ownership or occupation of the
premises after the work is completed, the charge and the powers and
remedies mentioned in subsection (6) may be exercised against the
premises or against any movable property or crops for the time being
found thereon.

 (8) An occupier who, when requested by or on behalf of the
Director‑General to state the name of the owner of the premises,
refuses or wilfully omits to disclose or wilfully misstates the name
shall, unless the occupier shows cause to the satisfaction of the court
for the occupier’s refusal or misstatement, be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

Recovery of costs and expenses by instalments

 54.—(1) When the Director-General has incurred costs and
expenses in or about the execution of any work, which are, under
this Act, payable by or recoverable from an owner, the
Director‑General may —

       (a) recover those costs and expenses in the manner provided in
            section 53; or

       (b) if he or she thinks fit, make an arrangement with the owner
            for the payment of any instalments that will be sufficient to
            defray the whole amount of the costs and expenses with
            interest thereon at the prescribed rate, within a period not
            exceeding 10 years.

 (2) Upon default in payment of any instalment or interest upon the
date appointed for payment thereof by the arrangement, the whole of
the balance then outstanding of that amount, together with any
interest in arrears, immediately become due and payable and, despite
any change in the ownership or occupation of the premises since the
date of the arrangement, may be recovered as provided in section 53.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        100

Proceedings for recovery of arrears

 55.—(1) For the recovery of arrears, the Director‑General has and
may exercise, either successively or concurrently, in addition to any
other remedies conferred by this Act, the following powers:

(a) the Director-General may issue a warrant of attachment
     and may seize by virtue of the warrant any movable
     property and crops of any person liable to pay the arrears
     and may also seize any movable property or crops (to
     whomever it belongs) which are found on the premises in
     respect of which the arrears are due and may, after service
     of the prescribed notice, sell the same by public auction in
     the prescribed manner;

(b) the Director-General may, by notice of sale to be served or
     published in the prescribed manner, declare his or her
     intention to sell, at the expiry of 3 months from the date of
     the notice of sale, the premises in respect of which the
     arrears are due and, if, at the expiry of that period, the
     arrears have not been paid or satisfied, the
     Director‑General may sell by public auction, in lots or
     otherwise, the whole of the premises or any portion of the
     premises or any interest in the premises as he or she
     considers sufficient for the recovery of the arrears and
     costs.

 (2) The Director-General must not proceed under subsection (1)(b)
to sell the premises in respect of which the arrears are due, or any
portion of the premises or interest in the premises, where there is or
are upon the premises and liable to be seized and sold under
subsection (1)(a) any movable property or crops belonging to the
owner of a value estimated by the Director‑General to be sufficient to
realise the sum required to satisfy the arrears and costs.

 (3) Any tenant, subtenant or occupier (A) who, in order to avoid the
seizure or sale of A’s property for arrears payable by the owner of the
premises, pays the arrears and costs may thereafter, in the absence of
any written agreement to the contrary, deduct the amount so paid by A
from the rent due or to become due by A to A’s immediate landlord on
account of the premises or any part of the premises that is held or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
     Environmental Protection and

101  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

occupied by A, and may retain possession until that amount has been
fully reimbursed to A whether by deduction from the rent or
otherwise.

 (4) Any tenant or subtenant who has reimbursed, whether by
allowing a deduction from the tenant’s or subtenant’s rent or
otherwise, any subtenant or occupier holding or occupying under
the tenant or subtenant the amount so paid by that subtenant or
occupier has a similar right to deduct the amount from the rent due or
to become due to the tenant’s or subtenant’s immediate landlord and
to retain possession until similarly reimbursed.

 (5) The receipt by any authorised officer of any amount so paid by
any such tenant, subtenant or occupier is deemed an acquittance in
full for the like amount of rent.

 (6) If any premises in respect of which arrears are due, or any
movable property or crops that are mentioned in subsection (1) or the
proceeds of sale thereof are already in the custody of the law under or
pursuant to any enforcement order whereby the Director‑General is
unable to exercise the remedies conferred under subsections (1) to
(5), the Director‑General —

     (a) may notify the Sheriff or the bailiff of the court concerned
          of the amount of the arrears; and

       (b) is entitled without obtaining a judgment to be paid that
            amount out of the proceeds of sale of the premises or
            property in priority to the judgment debtor and to the
            judgment creditor and to any other creditor except the
            Government.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (7) A certificate from the Director‑General is, unless it is disputed
by the judgment debtor, conclusive evidence of the amount of such
arrears, and (in case of dispute) the amount is to be summarily
determined by a Magistrate’s Court.

 (8) Where any premises which is not registered land is sold under
subsection (1)(b), the Director‑General has the power to execute the
conveyance and the purchaser of the premises need not be concerned
to inquire whether the provisions of this Act relating to the sale and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        102

the conveyance have been complied with nor otherwise to inquire
into the regularity or validity of the sale and conveyance.

 (9) Section 144 of the Land Titles Act 1993 applies, with the
necessary modifications, to any premises sold under subsection (1)(b)
which is registered land.

Attachment

 56.—(1) The attachment mentioned in section 55(1)(a) may be
made by a person appointed for the purpose by the Director‑General
who must give public notice of the attachment in the prescribed
manner and must take an inventory of the property attached.

 (2) A person appointed under subsection (1) is deemed to be a
public servant for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

 (3) Such a person may break open in the daytime any house or
building for the purpose of effecting the attachment.

Application of proceeds of sale

 57.—(1) The proceeds of a sale under section 55(1) and (2) must be
applied firstly in satisfaction of the arrears together with interest on
the arrears at the prescribed rate and costs.

 (2) Where there is any surplus remaining, the Director‑General
must —

       (a) if satisfied as to the right of any person claiming the
            surplus — pay the amount of the surplus to that person; or

       (b) if not so satisfied — hold the amount in trust for the person
            who may ultimately succeed in due course of law in
            establishing the person’s title to the surplus.

 (3) If no title is established to the surplus within a period of 5 years
from the date of the sale, it must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

Title acquired by purchaser at sale by Director-General

 58.—(1) The purchaser at a sale held under section 55(1)(b) is
deemed to have acquired the right offered for sale free from all
encumbrances created over it and from all subordinate interests

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
     Environmental Protection and

103  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

derived from it except any that are expressly reserved by the
Director‑General at the time of sale.

 (2) The Director-General must notify, by an advertisement
published in the Gazette, the result of the sale and the conveyance
to the purchaser of the property or right offered for sale.

Costs of proceedings for recovery of arrears

 59. All costs of any proceedings for the recovery of arrears may be
recovered as if they formed part of the arrears.

Power to stop sale

 60. If any person having any interest in any property liable to be
sold at any time before that sale tenders to the Director‑General the
arrears with interest and costs, the Director‑General must then desist
from all further proceedings in respect of the sale.

Application to Court

 61.—(1) If any person whose movable property, crop or land has
been attached or offered for sale disputes the attachment or sale, the
person may apply to the General Division of the High Court or, where
the arrears do not exceed the District Court’s limit, to a District Court
for an order to stay the proceedings.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) The General Division of the High Court or District Court, after
hearing the Director‑General and making any further inquiry that is
necessary, may make any order that is just.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Security for payment of arrears

 62. No application may be entertained by the General Division of
the High Court or District Court under section 61 unless the applicant
has deposited in court the amount of the arrears and costs or furnished
security for them to the satisfaction of the General Division of the
High Court or District Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        104

Liability of transferor who has not given notice

 63.—(1) Every person who sells or transfers any property in respect
of which costs and expenses have been incurred by the Agency in
connection with the execution of any work which are, under this Act,
recoverable from the owner or owners thereof continues to be
liable —

(a) for the payment of all the costs and expenses payable in
     respect of the property; and

(b) for the performance of all other obligations imposed by this
     Act upon the owner of the property,

which become payable or are to be performed at any time before such
notice of transfer as is required by section 19 of the Property Tax
Act 1960 has been given.

 (2) Nothing in subsection (1) affects the liability of the purchaser or
transferee to pay such costs and expenses in respect of the property or
affects the right of the Director‑General to recover such costs and
expenses or to enforce any obligation under this Act.

Proceedings where occupier opposes execution of work

 64.—(1) If the occupier of any premises prevents the owner of the
premises from carrying into effect in respect of the premises any of
the provisions of this Act after the owner has given notice of the
owner’s intention to do so to that occupier, a Magistrate’s Court, upon
proof of the notice and upon application by the owner, may —

       (a) make a written order, requiring the occupier to permit the
            owner to execute all works with respect to the premises
            that are necessary for carrying into effect the provisions of
            this Act; and

       (b) if it thinks fit, order the occupier to pay to the owner the
            costs relating to the application or order.

 (2) If after the expiry of 8 days from the date of the order the
occupier continues to refuse to permit the owner to execute the works,
the occupier shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a
day during which the occupier so continues to refuse.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
     Environmental Protection and

105  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

 (3) Every such owner is, during the continuance of such refusal,
discharged from any penalty to which the owner might otherwise
have become liable by reason of the owner’s default in executing the
works.

                                   PART 13

                   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Notices, orders and other documents may be given by
authorised officer

 65.—(1) All notices, orders, receipts, warrants and other
documents of any nature which the Director‑General is empowered
to give by this Act may, subject to the direction of the
Director‑General, be given by any authorised officer on behalf of
the Director‑General.

 (2) Where the notice, order, receipt, warrant or document requires
authentication, the signature, or an official fax of the signature, of the
Director‑General or any authorised officer affixed thereto is
sufficient authentication.

Service of documents, etc.

 66.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), any notice, order or other
document required or authorised to be given or served under this Act
may be served —

       (a) in the case of an individual —

               (i) by delivering it to the individual personally;

              (ii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently resident
                   at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post to, the
                   usual or last known address of the individual’s place
                   of residence;

             (iii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently
                   employed at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
                   post to, the usual or last known address of the
                   individual’s place of business;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        106

      (iv) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous
            place at the usual or last known address of residence
            or business of the individual;

                                                                    [Act 24 of 2021 wef 28/02/2022]

       (v) by sending it by fax to the fax number operated at the
            usual or last known address of the individual’s place
            of residence or business, or the last fax number given
            to the Agency or an authorised officer by the
            individual as the fax number for the service of
            documents on the individual; or

                                                                    [Act 24 of 2021 wef 28/02/2022]

      (vi) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address;

                                                                    [Act 24 of 2021 wef 28/02/2022]

(b) in the case of a partnership other than a limited liability
     partnership —

          (i) by delivering it to any one of the partners or the
              secretary or other like officer of the partnership;

                (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
                     post to, the principal or last known place of business
                     of the partnership in Singapore;

                                                                              [Act 24 of 2021 wef 28/02/2022]

               (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number operated at the
                     principal or last known place of business of the
                     partnership in Singapore; or

                                                                              [Act 24 of 2021 wef 28/02/2022]

                (iv) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
                     address; and

                                                                              [Act 24 of 2021 wef 28/02/2022]

          (c) in the case of any body corporate (including a limited
              liability partnership) or an unincorporated association —

          (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other similar
              officer of the body corporate or unincorporated
              association or the limited liability partnership’s
              manager;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
     Environmental Protection and

107  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

     (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
          post to, the registered office or principal office in
          Singapore of the body corporate or unincorporated
          association;

     (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number operated at the
           registered office or principal office in Singapore of
           the body corporate or unincorporated association; or

             (iv) by sending it by email to the last email address of the
                   body corporate or unincorporated association.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 28/02/2022]

 (2) Service of a notice, an order or other document under this
section takes effect —

     (a) if the notice, order or other document is sent by fax and a
          notification of successful transmission is received, on the
          day of transmission;

     (b) if the notice, order or other document is sent by email, at
          the time that the email becomes capable of being retrieved
          by the person to whom it is sent; and

       (c) if the notice, order or other document is sent by prepaid
            registered post, 2 days after the day the notice, order or
            other document was posted (even if it is returned
            undelivered).

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 28/02/2022]

 (3) Any notice, order or other document required or authorised by
this Act to be served on the owner or occupier of any premises may be
served —

     (a) by delivering it or a true copy thereof to an adult person on
          the premises; or

       (b) by affixing it to a conspicuous part of the premises if there
            is no adult person on the premises to whom it can with
            reasonable diligence be delivered.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (4) Any notice, order or other document required or authorised by
this Act to be served on the owner or occupier of any premises is
deemed to be properly addressed if addressed by the description of

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        108

the owner or occupier of the premises without further name or
description.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (4A) A notice, an order or other document may be served on a
person under this Act by email only with that person’s prior written
consent.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 28/02/2022]

 (5) This section does not apply to notices, summonses and other
documents to be served in proceedings in court.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (6) In this section, “last email address” means the last email address
given by the addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
notice, order or other document as the email address for the service of
documents under this Act.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 28/02/2022]

General penalties

 67.—(1) Any person who is guilty of an offence under this Act
(except for an offence under Part 7) for which no penalty is expressly
provided shall be liable —

       (a) on the first conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 and,
            in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction; and

       (b) on a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not
            exceeding $50,000 and, in the case of a continuing
            offence, to a further fine not exceeding $2,000 for every
            day or part of a day during which the offence continues
            after conviction.

 (2) The court before which the conviction is heard may, in addition
to the fine, order the person to pay to the Director‑General the amount
of any expense in connection with the execution of any work,
together with any interest due thereon or any interest certified by the
Director‑General to be due from the person at the date of the person’s
conviction.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
     Environmental Protection and

109  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

 (3) The amount may be recovered according to any written law for
the time being in force for the recovery of fines.

Furnishing of deposits

 68.—(1) Where any permit, consent or approval is given by the
Director‑General under this Act for the execution of any work, the
Director‑General may require a deposit or other security in lieu
thereof to be furnished by the person applying for the permit, consent
or approval to secure the execution of the work.

 (2) Where the work is not executed to the satisfaction of the
Director‑General, he or she may utilise the deposit or security or any
part thereof to make good the defects.

Inaccuracies in document

 69.—(1) No misnomer or inaccurate description of any person,
premises, building, holding, street or place named or described in any
document prepared, issued or served under, by virtue of or for the
purposes of this Act, in any way affects the operation of this Act as
respects that person or place if that person or place is so designated in
the document as to be identifiable.

 (2) No proceedings taken under or by virtue of this Act are invalid
for want of form.

Evidence

 69A.—(1) The contents of any document prepared, issued or served
under or for the purposes of this Act are, until the contrary is proved,
presumed to be correct and the production of any book purporting to
contain any apportionment made under this Act shall, without any
other evidence, be received as prima facie proof of the making and
validity of the apportionment mentioned in the book.

 (2) All records, registers and other documents kept by the Agency
or by any authorised officer for the purposes of this Act are deemed to
be public documents, and copies thereof or extracts therefrom
certified by the officer or employee of the Agency responsible for the
custody thereof to be true copies or extracts (as the case may be) and
subscribed by the officer or employee with his or her name and his or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        110

her official title is admissible in evidence as proof of the contents of
the documents or extracts therefrom.

Evidence of analyst

 70.—(1) The Director-General may, by instrument in writing under
the hand of the Director‑General, appoint persons who in his or her
opinion are qualified to be analysts for the purposes of this Act.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), a certificate of an analyst appointed
under subsection (1) stating that the analyst has analysed or examined
a substance and stating the result of the analyst’s analysis or
examination is admissible in evidence in any proceedings for an
offence under this Act as prima facie evidence of the facts stated in
the certificate and of the correctness of the result of the analysis or
examination.

 (3) A certificate of an analyst mentioned in subsection (2) shall not
be received in evidence under that subsection unless the person
charged has been given a copy of the certificate together with
reasonable notice of the intention of the prosecution to produce the
certificate as evidence in the proceedings.

 (4) Where a certificate of an analyst appointed under subsection (1)
is admitted in evidence under subsection (2), the person charged may
require the analyst to be called as a witness for the prosecution and the
analyst may be cross‑examined as if the analyst had given evidence of
the matters stated in the certificate.

 (5) For the purposes of this section, a document purporting to be a
certificate mentioned in subsection (2) on its production by the
prosecution is, unless the contrary is proved, deemed to be such a
certificate.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 71.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer; or

       (b) to be attributable to any act or default on his or her part,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
     Environmental Protection and

111  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with his or her functions of management as if
he or she were a director of the body corporate.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

     (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
          a partner; or

     (b) to be attributable to any act or default on his or her part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by a limited
liability partnership is proved to have been committed with the
consent or connivance of, or to be attributable to any act or default on
the part of, a partner or manager of the limited liability partnership,
the partner or manager (as the case may be) as well as the partnership
shall be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (5) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

     (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
          an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
          its governing body; or

     (b) to be attributable to any act or default on the part of such an
          officer or a member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
              Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.               Management Act 1999                           112

(6) In this section —

“body corporate” and “partnership” exclude a limited liability
   partnership within the meaning of the Limited Liability
   Partnerships Act 2005;

“officer” —

          (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
               member of the committee of management, chief
               executive, manager, secretary or other similar officer
               of the body corporate and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity; or

          (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
               than a partnership), means the president, the
               secretary, or any member of the committee of the
               unincorporated association, or any person holding a
               position analogous to that of the president, secretary
               or member of the committee and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

 (7) Regulations may provide for the application of any provision of
this section, with any modification that the Agency considers
appropriate, to any body corporate, limited liability partnership or
unincorporated association formed or recognised under the law of a
territory outside Singapore.

                                                                                                            [12/2011]

Composition of offences

 72.—(1) The Director-General may compound any offence under
this Act which is prescribed to be a compoundable offence by
accepting from the person reasonably suspected of having committed
the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the following:

(a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
     prescribed for the offence;

(b) $15,000.

                                            [26/2007]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
     Environmental Protection and

113  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings may
be taken against that person in respect of the offence except that any
compensation, damages, fees, costs or expenses which are provided
to be paid under this Act remain payable.

 (3) Nothing in this section prevents the Director‑General from
issuing any further notice in respect of the same matter to the person
who has paid the sum of money.

Jurisdiction of court

 73. Despite anything to the contrary contained in the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010, a District Court and a Magistrate’s Court have
jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act and have power to
impose the full penalty or punishment in respect of any offence under
this Act.

Saving of prosecutions under other laws

 74. Nothing in this Act prevents any person from being prosecuted
under any other written law for any act or omission which constitutes
an offence under this Act or from being liable under that other law to
any other or higher punishment or penalty than that provided by this
Act except that no person may be punished twice for the same
offence.

Exemption

 75. The Agency may, subject to the general or special directions of
the Minister, either permanently or for any period that the Agency
thinks fit, by order in the Gazette, exempt any, or any class of, person,
thing, premises or works from any provision of this Act.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 28/02/2022]

Amendment of Schedules

 76.—(1) The Minister may at any time, by order in the Gazette,
amend any Schedule except the Third Schedule.

 (2) The Minister may, in any order made under subsection (1),
make any incidental, consequential or supplementary provision that
may be necessary or expedient.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
             Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.     Management Act 1999                                     114

Regulations

 77.—(1) The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations —

(a) for or in respect of every purpose which is necessary for
     carrying out the provisions of this Act;

(b) for prescribing any matter which is authorised or required
     under this Act to be prescribed; and

          (c) without limiting paragraphs (a) and (b) for or in respect of
              the matters specified in the Third Schedule.

 (1A) Regulations made under this section may make different
provision for different classes, descriptions or types of goods,
persons, premises or works.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 28/02/2022]

 (2) The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, in making
any regulations, provide that any contravention of or failure to
comply with the regulations shall be an offence punishable with —

(a) a fine not exceeding $50,000 or with imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 2 years or with both; and

(b) in the case of a continuing offence, a fine not exceeding
     $2,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
     offence continues after conviction.

 (3) All regulations must be presented to Parliament as soon as
possible after publication in the Gazette.

Transitional provisions

 78. Any licence, permit, document, application, approval,
permission, order, direction, ruling or notice issued, made, given or
approved by the Director of Environmental Pollution Control under
any provision of this Act immediately before 1 July 2002 is deemed
to have been issued, made, given or approved under the same
provision by the Director‑General.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
     Environmental Protection and

115  Management Act 1999                            2020 Ed.

     FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                    Sections 2, 6 and 76(1)

                                SCHEDULED PREMISES
Scheduled premises are any premises —

        (a) being used for —

        (i) cement works, being works for the manufacture or packing of
            portland cement, similar cement or pozzolanic materials;

       (ii) concrete works, being works for the manufacture of concrete
            and of each batch capacity greater than 0.5 cubic metre;

      (iii) asphalt works, being works for the manufacture of asphalt or
            tarmacadam;

      (iv) ceramic works, being works in which any products such as
            bricks, tiles, pipes, pottery goods, refractories or glass are
            manufactured in furnaces or kilns fired by any fuel;

       (v) chemical works, being works in which acids, alkali, chemical
            fertilizer, soap, detergent, sodium silicates, lime or other
            calcium compounds, chlorine, chemicals or chemical products
            are manufactured;

      (vi) coke or charcoal works, being works in which coke or charcoal
            is produced and quenched, cut, crushed or graded;

     (vii) ferrous and non-ferrous metal works, being works in which
            metal melting process for casting and/or metal coating are
            carried out;

     (viii) gas works, being works in which coal, coke, oil or other
            mixtures or derivatives are handled or prepared for
            carbonisation or gasification and in which such materials are
            subsequently carbonised or gasified;

      (ix) crushing, grinding and milling works, being works in which
            rock, ores, minerals, chemicals or natural grain products are
            processed by crushing, grinding, milling or separating into
            different sizes by sieving, air elutriation or in any other manner;

       (x) petroleum works, being works in which crude or shale oil or
            crude petroleum or other mineral oil is refined or
            reconditioned;

     (xi) scrap metal recovery works, being works in which scrap metals
          are treated in any type of furnace for recovery of metal whether
          or not this is the primary object of any specific premises;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        116

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          (xii) primary metallurgical works, being works in which ores are
                smelted or converted to metal of any kind;

          (xiii) pulping works, being works in which wood or cellulose
                 material is made into pulp; or

          (xiv) abrasive blasting works, being works in which equipment or
                 structures are cleaned by abrasive blasting;

(b) on which there is erected any boiler of steam generating capacity of
     2,300 kilograms or more per hour, incinerator or furnace burning
     500 kilograms or more of solid combustible material per hour or
     220 kilograms or more of liquid material per hour; or

(c) being used or intended to be used for storing —

          (i) more than 100 tonnes of one or more of the following
              substances: chemicals, chemical products, hydrocarbons or
              hydrocarbon products which are toxic or which produce toxic
              gases on burning or on contact with water or air; or

          (ii) more than 1,000 tonnes of one or more of the following
               substances: chemicals, chemical products, hydrocarbons or
               hydrocarbon products with a flash point lower than 55ºC.

                    SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                           Sections 2, 21 and 76(1)

          CONTROL OF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
                                  PART I

                    HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
                                                                     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                                                  117

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                                            Substance                                                 Exclusions               Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                     1,2-Dibromoethane (EDB)
                                                                     2,2-Diphenyl-2-hydroxyacetic acid                                              .

                                                                     Acetic acid                                                                    Substances containing not more than 30%,
                                                                                                                                                    weight in weight, of 2,2-Diphenyl-2-
                                                                     Acetic Anhydride                                                               hydroxyacetic acid.
                                                                     Acetochlor                                                                     Substances containing not more than 80%,
                                                                     Acetyl bromide                                                                 weight in weight, of acetic acid;
                                                                     Alachlor                                                                       Preparations and solutions for photographic
                                                                     Alkali metal bifluorides; Ammonium bifluoride; Potassium fluoride; Sodium      use.
                                                                     fluoride; Potassium silicofluoride; Sodium silicofluoride; Silicofluoric acid
                                                                                                                                                    Preparations containing not more than 0.3%,
                                                                                                                                                    weight in weight, of potassium fluoride in    2020 Ed.
                                                                                                                                                    radiator protectors;
                                                                                                                                                    Preparations containing not more than 0.96%,
                                                                                                                                                    weight in weight, of potassium fluoride in
                                                                                                                                                    photographic chemicals;
                                                                     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                                                    2020 Ed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                                            Substance                                                 Exclusions                 Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                                                                                                    Substances containing not more than 3%,
                                                                     Alkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) phosphonyldifluorides, which include but are not  weight in weight, of sodium fluoride or sodium
                                                                     limited to —                                                                   silicofluoride as a preservative;
                                                                                                                                                    Substances containing sodium fluoride
                                                                           DF: Methylphosphonyldifluoride                                           intended for the treatment of human ailments.
                                                                     Allyl isothiocyanate
                                                                     Amiton: O,O-Diethyl S-[2-(diethylamino)ethyl] phosphorothiolate and            Preparations and solutions of ammonia
                                                                     corresponding alkylated or protonated salts                                    containing not more than 10%, weight in
                                                                     Amitraz                                                                        weight, of ammonia;
                                                                     Amitrole                                                                       Refrigeration equipment;
                                                                     Ammonia                                                                        Photographic and plan developers;
                                                                                                                                                    Hair colour dyes;
                                                                                                                                                                                                    118
                                                                     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                            119

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                                            Substance                       Exclusions                   Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                                                                          Perm lotions;
                                                                     Ammonium chlorate                                    Smelling bottles.                                 2020 Ed.
                                                                     Anionic surface active agents
                                                                                                                          Preparations containing less than 5% by
                                                                     Antimony pentachloride                               weight of anionic surface active agents;
                                                                     Antimony trihydride                                  Preparations containing anionic surface active
                                                                     Arsenical substances, the following:                 agents which are at least 90% biodegradable
                                                                                                                          under a test carried out in accordance with that
                                                                           Arsenic acid                                   part of the OECD method which is referred to
                                                                           Arsenic sulphide                               as “Confirmatory Test Procedure” in European
                                                                           Arsenic trichloride                            Communities Council Directive
                                                                                                                          No. 73/405/EEC (C) or other equivalent test
                                                                                                                          methods acceptable to the Director‑General.
                                                                                                                          Polishes.

                                                                                                                          Pyrites ores or sulphuric acid containing
                                                                                                                          arsenical poisons as natural impurities;
                                                                                                                          Animal feeding stuffs containing not more
                                                                                                                          than 0.005%, weight in weight, of 4-hydroxy-
                                                                                                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                                   2020 Ed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                          Substance                          Exclusions

                                                                     Arsine                             3-nitrophenyl-arsonic acid and not containing                                                                                 Environmental Protection and
                                                                     Calcium arsenite                   any other arsenical poison;
                                                                     Copper arsenate
                                                                     Copper arsenite                    Animal feeding stuffs containing not more
                                                                                                        than 0.01%, weight in weight, of arsanilic acid
                                                                                                        and not containing any other arsenical poison;

                                                                     Lead arsenate                      Animal feeding stuffs containing not more                                                                Management Act 1999
                                                                     Organic compounds of arsenic       than 0.0375%, weight in weight, of carbarsone
                                                                     Oxides of arsenic                  and not containing any other arsenical poison.

                                                                     Potassium arsenite

                                                                     Sodium arsenate

                                                                     Sodium arsenite

                                                                     Sodium thioarsenate

                                                                     Asbestos in the form of crocidolite, actinolite, anthophyllite, amosite, tremolite, Asbestos in the form of chrysotile in any
                                                                     chrysotile and amphiboles and products containing these forms of asbestos vehicle brake or clutch lining installed in any

                                                                                                                                                                        vehicle registered before 1 April 1995.

                                                                     Atrazine

                                                                     Benzidine; its salts

                                                                     Bis(chloromethyl)ether                                                                                                                      120
                                                                                                SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                       121

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                             Substance                              Exclusions
                                                                                                                  Boric acid or sodium borate in medicinal
                                                                     Boric acid; Sodium borate                    preparations, cosmetics, toilet preparations
                                                                                                                  and substances being preparations intended for
                                                                     Boron tribromide                             human consumption;                              Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                     Boron trichloride                            Preparations containing boric acid or sodium
                                                                     Boron trifluoride                            borate or a combination of both where water or
                                                                     Bromine; Bromine solutions                   solvent is not the only other part of the
                                                                     BZ: 3-Quinuclidinyl benzilate                composition.
                                                                     Cadmium and its compounds in controlled EEE
                                                                                                                  Controlled EEE containing cadmium not
                                                                                                                  exceeding 0.01% maximum concentration           2020 Ed.
                                                                                                                  value by weight of homogeneous material in
                                                                                                                  controlled EEE;
                                                                                                                  Cadmium and its compounds in electrical
                                                                                                                  contact;
                                                                     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                          2020 Ed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                                            Substance                       Exclusions                 Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                                                                          Cadmium in filter glass or glass used for
                                                                     Cadmium-containing silver brazing alloy              reflectance standards;
                                                                     Captafol                                             Cadmium in printing ink for the application of
                                                                     Carbamates                                           enamel on glass;
                                                                                                                          Cadmium alloy as electrical or mechanical
                                                                                                                          solder joint to electrical conductor located    122
                                                                                                                          directly on voice coil in transducer used in
                                                                                                                          high‑powered loudspeaker with sound
                                                                                                                          pressure level of 100 dB (A) or more;
                                                                                                                          Cadmium and cadmium oxide in thick film
                                                                                                                          paste used on aluminium bonded beryllium
                                                                                                                          oxide.

                                                                                                                          Benomyl;
                                                                                                                          Carbendazim;
                                                                                                                          Chlorpropham;
                                                                                                                          Propham;
                                                                                                                          Thiophanate-methyl;
                                                                                      SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                           123

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                   Substance                                                  Exclusions

                                                                                                                                                 Preparations containing not more than 1%,
                                                                                                                                                 weight in weight, of propoxur and not
                                                                                                                                                 containing any other carbamate;

                                                                                                                                                 Preparations containing not more than 1%,                       Environmental Protection and
                                                                                                                                                 weight in weight, of methomyl and not
                                                                                                                                                 containing any other carbamate.

                                                                     Carbamates (quaternaries and bisquaternaries of                                                                        Management Act 1999
                                                                     dimethylcarbamoyloxypyridines)

                                                                     Quaternaries of dimethylcarbamoyloxypyridines: 1-[N,N-dialkyl(≤C10)-N-(n-
                                                                     (hydroxyl, cyano, acetoxy)alkyl(≤C10)) ammonio]-n-[N-(3-dimethylcarbamoxy-
                                                                     α-picolinyl)-N,N-dialkyl(≤C10) ammonio]decane dibromide (n=1-8), which
                                                                     include but are not limited to —

                                                                     1-[N,N-dimethyl-N-(2-hydroxy)ethylammonio]-10-[N-(3-
                                                                     dimethylcarbamoxy-α-picolinyl)-N,N-dimethylammonio]decane dibromide

                                                                     Bisquaternaries of dimethylcarbamoyloxypyridines: 1,n-Bis[N-(3-
                                                                     dimethylcarbamoxy-α-picolyl)-N,N-dialkyl(≤C10) ammonio]-alkane-(2,(n-1)-
                                                                     dione) dibromide (n=2-12), which include but are not limited to —

                                                                     1,10-Bis[N-(3-dimethylcarbamoxy-α-picolyl)-N-ethyl-N-methylammonio]
                                                                     decane-2,9-dione dibromide

                                                                     Carbon monoxide                                                             Gas mixtures containing carbon monoxide    2020 Ed.
                                                                                                                                                 weighing less than 1 metric tonne;
                                                                                                               SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                              2020 Ed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                               Substance                                           Exclusions

                                                                                                                                                      Gas mixtures containing carbon monoxide as
                                                                                                                                                      by‑products from combustion activities.

                                                                     Carbon tetrafluoride

                                                                     Chemicals, except for those listed in Schedule 1 of the Annex on Chemicals of the Fonofos: O-Ethyl S-phenyl

                                                                     Chemical Weapons Convention, containing a phosphorus atom to which is ethylphosphonothiolothionate;                                                     Environmental Protection and

                                                                     bonded one methyl, ethyl or propyl (normal or iso) group but not further carbon  Substances containing not more than 30%,          Management Act 1999
                                                                     atoms, which include but are not limited to —                                    weight in weight, of any of these chemicals,

                                                                     Methylphosphonyl dichloride                                                      excluding methylphosphonyl dichloride and

                                                                     Dimethyl methylphosphonate                                                       ethylphosphonic dichloride.

                                                                     Chlorinated hydrocarbons, the following:                                         Paper impregnated with not more than 0.3%,
                                                                           Aldrin                                                                     weight in weight, of benzene hexachloride or
                                                                           Benzene hexachloride (BHC)                                                 gamma‑BHC provided it is labelled with
                                                                           Bromocyclen                                                                directions that no food, wrapped or
                                                                           Camphechlor                                                                unwrapped, or food utensils are to be placed on
                                                                           Chlorbenside                                                               the treated paper, and that it is not to be used
                                                                                                                                                      where food is prepared or served.

                                                                     Chlorbicyclen

                                                                     Chlordane

                                                                     Chlordecone                                                                                                                        124
                                                                                                                     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued              125

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                                      Substance                                Exclusions
                                                                     Chlordimeform
                                                                     Chlorfenethol                                                                            Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                     Chlorfenson
                                                                     Chlorfensulphide                                                                         2020 Ed.
                                                                     Chlorobenzilate
                                                                     Chloropropylate
                                                                     Dicophane (DDT)
                                                                     pp’-DDT
                                                                     Dicofol
                                                                     Dieldrin
                                                                     Endosulfan
                                                                     Endrin
                                                                     Fenazaflor
                                                                     Fenson
                                                                     Fluorbenzide
                                                                     Gamma benzene hexachloride (Gamma‑BHC), also known as lindane
                                                                     HCH (mixed isomers)
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                                                  SECOND SCHEDULE — continued  Exclusions  2020 Ed.

                                                                                                         Substance                                            Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                     HEOD [1,2,3,4,10,10-hexachloro-6,
                                                                     7-epoxy-1,4,4a,5,6,7,8,                                                                  126
                                                                     8a-octahydro-1,4 (exo): 5,
                                                                     8 (endo)-dimethano naphthalene]
                                                                     HHDN [1,2,3,4,10,10-hexachloro-1,
                                                                     4,4a,5,8,8a-hexahydro-1,4 (exo):5,8 (endo)-dimethano naphthalene]
                                                                     Heptachlor
                                                                     Hexachloroethane
                                                                     Isobenzan
                                                                     Isodrin
                                                                     Kelevan
                                                                     Methoxychlor [1,1,1-trichloro-2,
                                                                     2-di-(p-methoxyphenyl) ethane]
                                                                     Mirex
                                                                     Polychlorinated butadienes
                                                                     Tetrachlorodiphenylethane [TDE; 1,
                                                                     1-dichloro-2,2-bis (p‑chlorophenyl) ethane]
                                                                     Tetradifon
                                                                                                     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                             127

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                                  Substance                                   Exclusions

                                                                     Tetrasul

                                                                     Toxaphene

                                                                     Allied chlorinated hydrocarbon compounds used as pesticides (insecticides,
                                                                     acaricides, etc.)

                                                                     Chlorine                                                                    Chlorine used for chlorination of water in                       Environmental Protection and
                                                                                                                                                 swimming pools.
                                                                                                                                                                                             Management Act 1999
                                                                     Chlorine trifluoride

                                                                     Chlorobenzenes, the following:

                                                                     Monochlorobenzene

                                                                     Meta-dichlorobenzene

                                                                     Ortho-dichlorobenzene

                                                                     Trichlorobenzene

                                                                     Tetrachlorobenzene

                                                                     Pentachlorobenzene

                                                                     Hexachlorobenzene

                                                                     Chlorophenols, the following:                                               Substances containing not more than 1%,     2020 Ed.
                                                                           Monochlorophenol                                                      weight in weight, of chlorophenols.
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                                                        SECOND SCHEDULE — continued   Exclusions  2020 Ed.

                                                                                                               Substance                                             Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                           Dichlorophenol
                                                                           Trichlorophenol
                                                                           Tetrachlorophenol
                                                                           Pentachlorophenol and its salts and esters
                                                                     Chlorophenoxyacids; their salts, esters, amines, which include but are not limited
                                                                     to —
                                                                           2,4,5-T and its salts and esters
                                                                     Chloropicrin
                                                                     Chlorosarin: O-Isopropyl methylphosphonochloridate
                                                                     Chlorosilanes, the following:
                                                                           Hexachlorodisilane
                                                                           Phenyltrichlorosilane
                                                                           Tetrachlorosilane
                                                                     Chlorosoman: O-Pinacolyl methylphosphonochloridate
                                                                     Chlorosulphonic acid
                                                                     Chlorpyrifos

                                                                                                                                                                     128
                                                                                                                SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                    129

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                Substance                                         Exclusions
                                                                                                                Substances containing not more than 9%,
                                                                     Chromic acid                               weight in weight, of chromic acid;
                                                                                                                Photographic solutions containing chromic
                                                                     Cyanides, not including cyanogen chloride  acid in individual containers containing not   Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                     Cyanogen chloride                          more than 15 kilograms each of such solutions
                                                                     Dechlorane plus                            and of aggregate weight of not more than
                                                                                                                500 kilograms of such solutions.
                                                                                                                                                               2020 Ed.
                                                                                                                Adhesives;
                                                                                                                Fillers;
                                                                                                                Medical devices;
                                                                                                                Plastics;
                                                                                                                Substances, preparations or products used in
                                                                                                                the aerospace sector;
                                                                                                                Substances, preparations or products used in
                                                                                                                the defence sector;
                                                                                                                Substances, preparations or products used in
                                                                                                                the space sector;
                                                                     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                                           2020 Ed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                                            Substance                                      Exclusions                   Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and

                                                                     Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) N,N-dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr)-  Replacement parts for, or the repair of, any of
                                                                     phosphoramidates                                                    the following articles that were originally
                                                                                                                                         manufactured using Dechlorane plus:

                                                                                                                                         (a) articles used in the aerospace sector;

                                                                                                                                         (b) articles used in the defence sector;

                                                                                                                                          (c) articles used in the space sector;

                                                                                                                                         (d) equipment used in the marine industry;

                                                                                                                                          (e) equipment used for gardening or forestry;

                                                                                                                                          (f) instruments for analysis, measurements,
                                                                                                                                               control, monitoring, testing, production
                                                                                                                                               or inspection;

                                                                                                                                         (g) medical devices;

                                                                                                                                         (h) motor vehicles;

                                                                                                                                          (i) outdoor power equipment;

                                                                                                                                          (j) stationary industrial machines used for
                                                                                                                                               agriculture, forestry or construction.

                                                                                                                                         Substances containing not more than 30%,
                                                                                                                                         weight in weight, of dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-

                                                                                                                                                                                           130
                                                                                            SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                          131

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                         Substance                                                  Exclusions

                                                                                                                                                       Pr) N,N-dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr)-
                                                                                                                                                       phosphoramidates.

                                                                     Diborane

                                                                     Dibromochloropropane

                                                                     Diethyl phosphite                                                                 Substances containing not more than 30%,                       Environmental Protection and
                                                                                                                                                       weight in weight, of diethyl phosphite.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Management Act 1999
                                                                     Diethyl sulphate

                                                                     Dinitro-ortho-cresol (DNOC) and its salts (such as ammonium salt, potassium salt
                                                                     and sodium salt)

                                                                     Dinosam; its compounds with a metal or a base

                                                                     Dinoseb and its salts and esters, which includes but is not limited to —

                                                                     Binapacryl

                                                                     Dinoterb

                                                                     Diquat; its salts

                                                                     Drazoxolon; its salts                                                             Dressings on seeds.

                                                                     Dustable powder formulations containing a combination of —

                                                                     benomyl at or above 7 per cent, carbofuran at above 10 per cent, thiram at or                                               2020 Ed.
                                                                     above 15 per cent
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                                  SECOND SCHEDULE — continued  Exclusions  2020 Ed.
                                                                                          Substance

                                                                     Endothal; its salts  Substances containing less than 1%, weight in
                                                                     Epichlorohydrin      weight, of ethyl mercaptan.
                                                                     Ethyl mercaptan
                                                                     Ethylene dichloride  Mixtures of inert gases and ethylene oxide          Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                     Ethylene imine       comprising not more than 12%, weight in
                                                                     Ethylene oxide       weight, of ethylene oxide contained in
                                                                                          cylinders of water capacity less than 47 litres
                                                                     Ferric chloride      and for aggregate of not more than 3 of such
                                                                     Fipronil             cylinders.

                                                                     Fluorine             Formulated products containing Fipronil
                                                                     Fluoroacetamide      approved for household use and belonging to
                                                                                          Table 5 of the WHO Recommended
                                                                                          Classification of Pesticides by Hazard.

                                                                                                                                              132
                                                                                            SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                   133

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                         Substance                       Exclusions

                                                                     Formaldehyde                      Photographic glazing or hardening solutions;       Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                     Formaldehyde in paint
                                                                                                       Any substance (except paint) containing not
                                                                                                       more than 5%, weight in weight, of                 2020 Ed.
                                                                                                       formaldehyde;

                                                                                                       Paint containing less than 0.01%, weight in
                                                                                                       weight, of formaldehyde;

                                                                                                       Paint containing formaldehyde for application
                                                                                                       on outdoor areas or for industrial use, if —

                                                                                                       (a) the paint is sold or supplied in a container
                                                                                                             with a label affixed on the exterior of the
                                                                                                             container; and

                                                                                                       (b) the label complies with Part IV of this
                                                                                                             Schedule.

                                                                                                       Paint containing less than 0.01%, weight in
                                                                                                       weight, of formaldehyde;

                                                                                                       Paint containing formaldehyde for application
                                                                                                       on outdoor areas or for industrial use, if —

                                                                                                       (a) the paint is sold or supplied in a container
                                                                                                             with a label affixed on the exterior of the
                                                                                                             container; and
                                                                     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                         2020 Ed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                                            Substance                       Exclusions                Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                                                                          (b) the label complies with Part IV of this
                                                                     Formic acid
                                                                     Germane                                                    Schedule.
                                                                     Hexabromocyclododecane (HBCD)                        Substances containing not more than 5%,
                                                                     Hexavalent chromium in controlled EEE                weight in weight, of formic acid.

                                                                     Hexazinone                                           Controlled EEE containing hexavalent
                                                                     Hydrazine anhydrous; Hydrazine aqueous solutions     chromium not exceeding 0.1% maximum
                                                                     Hydrochloric acid                                    concentration value by weight of
                                                                                                                          homogeneous material in controlled EEE;
                                                                                                                          Hexavalent chromium as anticorrosion agent,
                                                                                                                          not exceeding 0.75% by weight, in the cooling
                                                                                                                          solution of carbon steel cooling system in
                                                                                                                          absorption refrigerator.

                                                                                                                          Substances containing not more than 9%,
                                                                                                                          weight in weight, of hydrochloric acid.

                                                                                                                                                                         134
                                                                                        SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                              135

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                     Substance                                                                    Exclusions

                                                                     Hydrofluoric acid                                                          Preparations or solutions containing not more
                                                                                                                                                than 2%, weight in weight, of hydrofluoric
                                                                     Hydrofluorocarbons, the following, including any mixture containing those  acid.                                                                 Environmental Protection and
                                                                     hydrofluorocarbons:
                                                                                                                                                Any manufactured product containing any
                                                                           1,1,1,2,2,3,4,5,5,5-decafluoropentane                                substance mentioned in the opposite column,
                                                                           1,1,1,2,2,3-hexafluoropropane                                        not being a container containing the substance.
                                                                           1,1,1,2,3,3,3-heptafluoropropane
                                                                           1,1,1,2,3,3-hexafluoropropane                                                                                         Management Act 1999
                                                                           1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane
                                                                           1,1,1,3,3,3-hexafluoropropane                                                                                         2020 Ed.
                                                                           1,1,1,3,3-pentafluorobutane
                                                                           1,1,1,3,3-pentafluoropropane
                                                                           1,1,1-trifluoroethane
                                                                           1,1,2,2,3-pentafluoropropane
                                                                           1,1,2,2-tetrafluoroethane
                                                                           1,1,2-trifluoroethane
                                                                     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                       2020 Ed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                                            Substance                       Exclusions              Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                           1,1-difluoroethane
                                                                           1,2-difluoroethane                             Preparations of wild cherry;
                                                                           Difluoromethane                                In reagent kits supplied for medical or
                                                                           Fluoromethane (methyl fluoride)                veterinary purposes, substances containing
                                                                           Pentafluoroethane                              less than the equivalent of 0.1%, weight in
                                                                           Trifluoromethane                               weight, of hydrocyanic acid.
                                                                     Hydrogen chloride
                                                                     Hydrogen cyanide; Hydrocyanic acid                   Polyisocyanates containing less than 0.7%,
                                                                                                                          weight in weight, of free monomeric
                                                                     Hydrogen fluoride                                    diisocyanates;
                                                                     Hydrogen selenide
                                                                     Iprodione
                                                                     Isocyanates

                                                                                                                                                                       136
                                                                     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                        137

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                                            Substance                       Exclusions                                    Environmental Protection and
                                                                     Lead and its compounds in controlled EEE
                                                                                                                          Pre-polymerised isocyanates in polyurethane
                                                                                                                          paints and lacquers;                          Management Act 1999

                                                                                                                          Hardeners and bonding agents for immediate    2020 Ed.
                                                                                                                          use in adhesives.

                                                                                                                          Controlled EEE containing lead not exceeding
                                                                                                                          0.1% maximum concentration value by weight
                                                                                                                          of homogeneous material in controlled EEE;

                                                                                                                          Lead in glass of cathode ray tube;

                                                                                                                          Lead, not exceeding 0.2% by weight, in glass
                                                                                                                          of fluorescent tube;

                                                                                                                          Lead, not exceeding 0.35% by weight, as an
                                                                                                                          alloying element in steel for machining
                                                                                                                          purposes or galvanised steel;

                                                                                                                          Lead, not exceeding 0.4% by weight, as an
                                                                                                                          alloying element in aluminium;

                                                                                                                          Lead, not exceeding 4% by weight, in copper
                                                                                                                          alloy;

                                                                                                                          Lead in high melting temperature type solder
                                                                                                                          (that is, lead‑based alloy containing 85% by
                                                                                                                          weight or more lead);
                                                                     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                    2020 Ed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027  Substance                       Exclusions

                                                                                Electrical and electronic component                 Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                                containing lead in —
                                                                                                                                    138
                                                                                (a) glass or ceramic (other than dielectric
                                                                                      ceramic in capacitor); or

                                                                                (b) glass or ceramic matrix compound;

                                                                                Lead in dielectric ceramic in capacitor for
                                                                                rated voltage of 125 V AC, 250 V DC or
                                                                                higher;

                                                                                Lead in bearing shell or bush for
                                                                                refrigerant‑containing compressor for heating,
                                                                                ventilation, air conditioning or refrigeration
                                                                                application;

                                                                                Lead in white glass for optical application;

                                                                                Lead in filter glass or glass used for reflectance
                                                                                standards;

                                                                                Lead in printing ink for the application of
                                                                                enamel on glass;

                                                                                Lead in solder for —

                                                                                (a) completing viable electrical connection
                                                                                      between semiconductor die and carrier
                                                                                              SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                139

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                           Substance                       Exclusions

                                                                                                               within integrated circuit flip chip       Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                                                               package;
                                                                     Lead compounds in paint
                                                                                                         (b) soldering to machined‑through hole
                                                                                                               discoidal or planar array ceramic         2020 Ed.
                                                                                                               multilayer capacitor; or

                                                                                                          (c) soldering thin copper wire (with diameter
                                                                                                               not exceeding 100 μm) in power
                                                                                                               transformer;

                                                                                                         Lead in soldering materials in mercury‑free
                                                                                                         flat fluorescent lamp;

                                                                                                         Lead oxide in surface conduction electron
                                                                                                         emitter display used in structural element;

                                                                                                         Lead bound in crystal glass;

                                                                                                         Lead in cermet‑based trimmer potentiometer
                                                                                                         element;

                                                                                                         Lead in plating layer of high‑voltage diode on
                                                                                                         base of zinc borate glass body.

                                                                                                         Paint in which the total lead does not exceed
                                                                                                         0.009% by weight of the paint;
                                                                                                            SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                2020 Ed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027              Substance                                                             Exclusions

                                                                                                                                                       Paint in which the total lead exceeds 0.009%
                                                                                                                                                       by weight of the paint, and which is —

                                                                                                                                                       (a) copper-based anti‑fouling paint or
                                                                                                                                                            zinc‑based anti‑corrosion paint;

                                                                                                                                                       (b) imported into or manufactured in            Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                                                                                                            Singapore, other than solely for export;
                                                                                                                                                            and

                                                                                                                                                       (c) in a container that is labelled in
                                                                                                                                                           accordance with Part III of this Schedule.

                                                                     Lewisites:

                                                                     Lewisite 1: 2-Chlorovinyldichloroarsine

                                                                     Lewisite 2: Bis(2-chlorovinyl)chloroarsine

                                                                     Lewisite 3: Tris(2-chlorovinyl)arsine

                                                                     Long-chain perfluorocarboxylic acids (LC-PFCAs) (chain lengths at least C9 but
                                                                     not exceeding C21); their salts and related compounds

                                                                     Medium-chain chlorinated paraffins (chain lengths at least C14 but not exceeding
                                                                     C17)

                                                                     Mercury

                                                                                                                                                                                                       140
                                                                     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                                                 141

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                                            Substance                                              Exclusions                 Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                     Mercury or any mercury compound in controlled EEE                           Controlled EEE containing mercury of not
                                                                                                                                                 more than 0.1% maximum concentration value
                                                                     Mercury compounds including inorganic mercury compounds, alkyl mercury      by weight of homogeneous material in
                                                                     compounds, alkyloxyalkyl and aryl mercury compounds, and other organic      controlled EEE.
                                                                     compounds of mercury
                                                                     Mercury or any mercury compound in batteries                                Batteries (including batteries in button form)
                                                                                                                                                 containing not more than 0.0005% by weight
                                                                     Mercury or any mercury compound in cold cathode fluorescent lamps, and      of mercury per cell.
                                                                     external electrode fluorescent lamps, used for electronic displays
                                                                     Mercury or any mercury compound in the following electrical and electronic  The following electrical and electronic
                                                                     measuring devices:                                                          measuring devices, if they are installed in
                                                                      Melt pressure transducers                                                  large-scale equipment or used for high
                                                                      Melt pressure transmitters                                                 precision measurement, where no suitable
                                                                      Melt pressure sensors                                                      mercury free alternative is available:

                                                                                                                                                       Melt pressure transducers                 2020 Ed.
                                                                                                                                                       Melt pressure transmitters
                                                                                                                                                       Melt pressure sensors.
                                                                     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                                                 2020 Ed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027  Substance                                                                   Exclusions

                                                                     Mercury or any mercury compound in fluorescent lamps used primarily for     Circular fluorescent lamps or other linear
                                                                     general lighting purposes                                                   fluorescent lamps, if each lamp contains not
                                                                                                                                                 more than 10 mg of mercury per lamp;

                                                                                                                                                 Compact fluorescent lamps, if each lamp —

                                                                                                                                                 (a) has a non-integrated ballast and contains   Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                                                                                                      not more than 5 mg of mercury per lamp
                                                                                                                                                      burner; or

                                                                                                                                                 (b) has an integrated ballast, uses more than
                                                                                                                                                      30 W, and contains not more than 5 mg of
                                                                                                                                                      mercury per lamp burner;

                                                                                                                                                 Triband phosphor linear fluorescent lamps, if
                                                                                                                                                 each lamp uses less than 60 W and contains not
                                                                                                                                                 more than 5 mg of mercury per lamp.

                                                                     Mercury or any mercury compound in high pressure mercury vapour lamps used
                                                                     primarily for general lighting purposes

                                                                     Mercury or any mercury compound in strain gauges to be used in
                                                                     plethysmographs

                                                                     Mercury or any mercury compound in switches and relays                      Very high accuracy capacitance and loss
                                                                                                                                                 measurement bridges and high frequency radio
                                                                                                                                                 frequency switches and relays in monitoring     142
                                                                                                                                                 and control instruments with a maximum
                                                                                        SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                               143

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                     Substance                                                 Exclusions

                                                                                                                                                  mercury content of 20 mg per bridge, switch or
                                                                                                                                                  relay, if they are used for research and
                                                                                                                                                  development purposes.

                                                                     Mercury or any mercury compound in the following non-electronic measuring    Non-electronic measuring devices installed in   Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                     devices:                                                                     large-scale equipment or those used for high
                                                                                                                                                  precision measurement, where no suitable
                                                                           Barometers                                                             mercury-free alternative is available.

                                                                           Hygrometers

                                                                     Manometers

                                                                     Thermometers

                                                                     Sphygmomanometers

                                                                     Mercury or any mercury compound in mercury vacuum pumps

                                                                     Mercury or any mercury compound in photographic film and paper

                                                                     Mercury or any mercury compound in propellant for satellites and spacecraft

                                                                     Mercury or any mercury compound in tyre balancers and wheel weights

                                                                     Metanil yellow (sodium salt of metanilylazo-diphenylamine)                   Dye-indicators used in laboratories.

                                                                     Methyl-(bis(diethylamino)methylene)phosphonamidofluoridate

                                                                     Methyl chloride                                                                                                              2020 Ed.
                                                                                                             SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                   2020 Ed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                    Substance                                          Exclusions

                                                                     Methyl mercaptan                                            Substances containing less than 1%, weight in
                                                                                                                                 weight, of methyl mercaptan.

                                                                     Monomethyl-dibromodiphenyl methane

                                                                     Monomethyl-dichloro-diphenyl methane

                                                                     Monomethyltetrachloro diphenyl methane                                                                                                     Environmental Protection and

                                                                     N,N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) aminoethane-2-thiols and corresponding Substances containing not more than 30%,    Management Act 1999

                                                                     protonated salts                                            weight in weight, of N,N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr

                                                                                                                                 or i-Pr) aminoethane-2-thiols and

                                                                                                                                 corresponding protonated salts.

                                                                     N,N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) aminoethyl-2-chlorides and corresponding Substances containing not more than 30%,

                                                                     protonated salts                                            weight in weight, of N,N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr

                                                                                                                                 or i-Pr) aminoethyl-2-chlorides and

                                                                                                                                 corresponding protonated salts, excluding 2-

                                                                                                                                 (N,N-Diisopropylamino)ethylchloride

                                                                                                                                 hydrochloride, and 2-(N,N-Diethylamino)

                                                                                                                                 ethylchloride hydrochloride.

                                                                     Neonicotinoid compounds used as pesticides, the following:  Formulated products containing Imidacloprid
                                                                           Imidacloprid                                          approved for household use and belonging to
                                                                                                                                 Table 5 of the WHO Recommended
                                                                                                                                 Classification of Pesticides by Hazard.

                                                                     Niclofolan                                                                                                            144
                                                                                                              SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                          145

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                                 Substance                                             Exclusions

                                                                     Nicotine sulphate                                               Substances containing not more than 9%,                            Environmental Protection and
                                                                     Nitric acid                                                     weight in weight, of nitric acid.

                                                                     Nitric oxide                                                    Substances containing less than 0.1%, weight
                                                                     Nitrobenzene                                                    in weight, of nitrobenzene;
                                                                                                                                     Soaps containing less than 1%, weight in
                                                                                                                                     weight, of nitrobenzene;                      Management Act 1999
                                                                                                                                     Polishes and cleansing agents.

                                                                     Nitrogen mustards:

                                                                     HN1: Bis(2-chloroethyl)ethylamine

                                                                     HN2: Bis(2-chloroethyl)methylamine

                                                                     HN3: Tris(2-chloroethyl)amine

                                                                     Nitrogen trifluoride

                                                                     Nonylphenol and nonylphenol ethoxylates

                                                                     O-Alkyl (≤C10, incl. cycloalkyl) alkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr)-                                                2020 Ed.
                                                                     phosphonofluoridates, which include but are not limited to —

                                                                     Sarin:  O-Isopropyl methylphosphonofluoridate
                                                                             SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                                       2020 Ed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027          Substance                                                                   Exclusions

                                                                     Soman:  O-Pinacolyl methylphosphonofluoridate

                                                                     O-alkyl (H or ≤C10, incl. cycloalkyl) N-(1-(dialkyl(≤C10, incl. cycloalkyl)amino))                                                             Environmental Protection and
                                                                     alkylidene(H or ≤C10, incl. cycloalkyl) phosphoramidofluoridates and
                                                                     corresponding alkylated or protonated salts, which include but are not limited

                                                                     to —

                                                                     O-n-Decyl N-(1-(di-n-decylamino)-n-decylidene)phosphoramidofluoridate                                                     Management Act 1999

                                                                     Methyl (1-(diethylamino)ethylidene) phosphoramidofluoridate

                                                                     Ethyl (1-(diethylamino)ethylidene) phosphoramidofluoridate

                                                                     O-Alkyl (H or ≤C10, incl. cycloalkyl) O-2-dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr)-
                                                                     aminoethyl alkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) phosphonites and corresponding alkylated
                                                                     or protonated salts, which include but are not limited to —

                                                                             QL: O-Ethyl O-2-diisopropylaminoethyl methylphosphonite

                                                                     O-Alkyl (H or ≤C10, incl. cycloalkyl) S-2-dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr)-
                                                                     aminoethyl alkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) phosphonothiolates and corresponding
                                                                     alkylated or protonated salts, which include but are not limited to —

                                                                             VX: O-Ethyl S-2-diisopropylaminoethyl methyl phosphonothiolate

                                                                     Oleum

                                                                     Orange II [sodium salt of                                                           Dye-indicators used in laboratories.
                                                                     p-(2-hydroxy-1-naphthylazo) benzenesulphonic acid]
                                                                                                                                                                                               146
                                                                                                              SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                       147

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                     Substance                                  Exclusions
                                                                                                              Car puttys;
                                                                     Organic peroxides                        Substances and preparations containing not
                                                                                                              more than 3%, weight in weight, of organic
                                                                     Organo-tin compounds, the following:     peroxides;                                        Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                           Compounds of fentin                Solutions of not more than 60%, weight in
                                                                           Cyhexatin                          weight, of methyl ethyl ketone peroxides and      2020 Ed.
                                                                           Tributyl tin compounds             total aggregate weight of less than
                                                                                                              50 kilograms of such solutions.
                                                                     Ozone depleting substances, namely:
                                                                     (a) Chlorofluorocarbons, the following:  Products containing any ozone depleting
                                                                                                              substance other than the following products:
                                                                                  Chloroheptafluoropropane    (a) in the case of chlorofluorocarbons —
                                                                                  Chloropentafluoroethane
                                                                                  Chlorotrifluoromethane               (i) air conditioners in vehicles
                                                                                  Dichlorodifluoromethane                  registered on or after 1 January
                                                                                                                           1995 or intended for such vehicles;
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                                          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued               Exclusions                   2020 Ed.
                                                                                                                                          (ii) equipment for domestic or
                                                                                                  Substance                                                                         Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                     Dichlorohexafluoropropane                                                  commercial refrigeration or air
                                                                     Dichlorotetrafluoroethane                                                  conditioning installed on or after
                                                                     Heptachlorofluoropropane                                                   1 January 1993, or heat pump
                                                                     Hexachlorodifluoropropane                                                  equipment, which contains any
                                                                     Pentachlorofluoroethane                                                    chlorofluorocarbon substance as a
                                                                     Pentachlorotrifluoropropane                                                refrigerant or in any insulating
                                                                     Tetrachlorodifluoroethane                                                  material of such equipment;
                                                                     Tetrachlorotetrafluoropropane
                                                                     Trichlorofluoromethane                                               (iii) refrigerators that have a
                                                                     Trichloropentafluoropropane                                                compressor rating which exceeds
                                                                     Trichlorotrifluoroethane                                                   one horsepower;

                                                                                                                                          (iv) non-pharmaceutical aerosol           148
                                                                                                                                                products;

                                                                                                                                          (v) insulation boards, panels or pipe
                                                                                                                                                covers;
                                                                     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                            149

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                                           Substance                         Exclusions                  Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and

                                                                     (b) Halons, the following:                                   (vi) polystyrene sheets or finished
                                                                                 Bromochlorodifluoromethane                             products;
                                                                                 Bromochloromethane
                                                                                 Bromotrifluoromethane                      (b) in the case of Halons, portable fire
                                                                                 Dibromotetrafluoroethane                        extinguishers; and

                                                                     (c) Hydrochlorofluorocarbons, the following:           (c) in the case of bromotrifluoromethane, fire
                                                                                 1,1-dichloro-1-fluoro-ethane                    protection systems with building plans
                                                                                 1,1-dichloro-2,2,3,3,3-pentafluoropropane       approved after 17 June 1991 and installed
                                                                                 1,3-dichloro-1,2,2,3,3-pentafluoropropane       after 31 December 1991.
                                                                                 1-chloro-1,1-difluoro-ethane
                                                                                 Chlorodifluoroethane                                                                       2020 Ed.
                                                                                 Chlorodifluoromethane
                                                                                 Chlorodifluoropropane
                                                                                 Chlorofluoroethane
                                                                                 Chlorofluoromethane
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                                          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued  Exclusions  2020 Ed.

                                                                                                  Substance                                           Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                     Chlorofluoropropane
                                                                     Chlorohexafluoropropane                                                          150
                                                                     Chloropentafluoropropane
                                                                     Chlorotetrafluoroethane
                                                                     Chlorotetrafluoropropane
                                                                     Chlorotrifluoroethane
                                                                     Chlorotrifluoropropane
                                                                     Dichlorodifluoroethane
                                                                     Dichlorodifluoropropane
                                                                     Dichlorofluoroethane
                                                                     Dichlorofluoromethane
                                                                     Dichlorofluoropropane
                                                                     Dichloropentafluoropropane
                                                                     Dichlorotetrafluoropropane
                                                                     Dichlorotrifluoroethane
                                                                     Dichlorotrifluoropropane
                                                                     Hexachlorofluoropropane
                                                                                                                          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued              151

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                                           Substance                                Exclusions
                                                                                 Pentachlorodifluoropropane
                                                                                 Pentachlorofluoropropane                                                          Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                                 Tetrachlorodifluoropropane
                                                                                 Tetrachlorofluoroethane                                                           2020 Ed.
                                                                                 Tetrachlorofluoropropane
                                                                                 Tetrachlorotrifluoropropane
                                                                                 Trichlorodifluoroethane
                                                                                 Trichlorodifluoropropane
                                                                                 Trichlorofluoroethane
                                                                                 Trichlorofluoropropane
                                                                                 Trichlorotetrafluoropropane
                                                                                 Trichlorotrifluoropropane
                                                                     (d) Hydrobromofluorocarbons, the following:
                                                                                 Bromodifluoroethane
                                                                                 Bromodifluoromethane
                                                                                 Bromodifluoropropane
                                                                                 Bromofluoroethane
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                                          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued  Exclusions  2020 Ed.

                                                                                                  Substance                                           Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                     Bromofluoromethane
                                                                     Bromofluoropropane                                                               152
                                                                     Bromohexafluoropropane
                                                                     Bromopentafluoropropane
                                                                     Bromotetrafluoroethane
                                                                     Bromotetrafluoropropane
                                                                     Bromotrifluoroethane
                                                                     Bromotrifluoropropane
                                                                     Dibromodifluoroethane
                                                                     Dibromodifluoropropane
                                                                     Dibromofluoroethane
                                                                     Dibromofluoromethane
                                                                     Dibromofluoropropane
                                                                     Dibromopentafluoropropane
                                                                     Dibromotetrafluoropropane
                                                                     Dibromotrifluoroethane
                                                                     Dibromotrifluoropropane
                                                                                                                          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued              153

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                                           Substance                                Exclusions
                                                                                 Hexabromofluoropropane
                                                                                 Pentabromodifluoropropane                                                         Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                                 Pentabromofluoropropane
                                                                                 Tetrabromodifluoropropane                                                         2020 Ed.
                                                                                 Tetrabromofluoroethane
                                                                                 Tetrabromofluoropropane
                                                                                 Tetrabromotrifluoropropane
                                                                                 Tribromodifluoroethane
                                                                                 Tribromodifluoropropane
                                                                                 Tribromofluoroethane
                                                                                 Tribromofluoropropane
                                                                                 Tribromotetrafluoropropane
                                                                                 Tribromotrifluoropropane
                                                                     (e) Carbon tetrachloride
                                                                     (f) 1,1,1-trichloroethane (methyl chloroform)
                                                                     (g) Methyl bromide
                                                                                                           SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                  2020 Ed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                             Substance                                                Exclusions

                                                                     Р-alkyl (H or ≤C10, incl. cycloalkyl) N-(1-(dialkyl(≤C10, incl. cycloalkyl)amino))
                                                                     alkylidene(H or ≤C10, incl. cycloalkyl) phosphonamidic fluorides and
                                                                     corresponding alkylated or protonated salts, which include but are not limited

                                                                     to —

                                                                     N-(1-(di-n-decylamino)-n-decylidene)-P-decylphosphonamidic fluoride                                                                                     Environmental Protection and

                                                                     Methyl-(1-(diethylamino)ethylidene)phosphonamidofluoridate                                                                         Management Act 1999

                                                                     Paraquat; its salts

                                                                     Pentadecafluorooctanoic acid (PFOA); its salts and related compounds

                                                                     Perchloromethyl mercaptan                                                           Substances containing less than 1%, weight in
                                                                                                                                                         weight, of perchloromethyl mercaptan.

                                                                     Perfluorohexane sulfonic acid (PFHxS); its salts and related compounds

                                                                     Perfluorooctane sulfonic acid (PFOS)

                                                                     PFIB: 1,1,3,3,3-Pentafluoro-2-(trifluoromethyl)-1-propene

                                                                     Phenols, the following:                                                             Preparations containing less than 1%, weight   154
                                                                           Catechol                                                                      in weight, of phenols;
                                                                           Cresol
                                                                           Hydroquinone                                                                  Phenols which are intended for the treatment
                                                                           Octyl phenol                                                                  of human ailments and other medical purposes;

                                                                                                                                                         Soaps for washing;
                                                                                 SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                                   155

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027              Substance                                                                           Exclusions
                                                                                                                                                Tar (coal or wood), crude or refined;
                                                                     Phenol
                                                                     Resorcinol                                                                 Photographic solutions containing
                                                                                                                                                hydroquinone in individual containers
                                                                     Phosgene                                                                   containing not more than 15 kilograms each of  Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                     Phosphides                                                                 such solutions and of aggregate weight of not
                                                                     Phosphine                                                                  more than 500 kilograms of such solutions.     2020 Ed.
                                                                     Phosphoric acid
                                                                                                                                                Substances containing not more than 50%,
                                                                     Phosphorus compounds used as pesticides (insecticides, acaricides, etc.),  weight in weight, of phosphoric acid.
                                                                     including but not limited to:                                              Acephate;
                                                                      Chlorpyrifos                                                              Bromophos;
                                                                      Methamidophos                                                             Iodofenphos;
                                                                      Methyl-parathion                                                          Malathion;
                                                                      Monocrotophos                                                             Pirimiphos-methyl;
                                                                                                                                                Temephos;
                                                                                               SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                               2020 Ed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                            Substance                       Exclusions

                                                                      Parathion                           Tetrachlorvinphos;                             Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                      Phosphamidon
                                                                      Trichlorfon                         Preparations containing not more than 0.5%,
                                                                                                          weight in weight, of dichlorvos and not
                                                                     Phosphorus oxybromide                containing any other phosphorus compound
                                                                     Phosphorus oxychloride               used as a pesticide;
                                                                     Phosphorus pentabromide
                                                                     Phosphorus pentachloride             Materials impregnated with dichlorvos and not
                                                                     Phosphorus pentafluoride             containing any other phosphorus compound
                                                                     Phosphorus trichloride               used as a pesticide for slow release;
                                                                     Polybrominated biphenyls
                                                                                                          Preparations containing not more than 1%,
                                                                                                          weight in weight, of azamethiphos and not
                                                                                                          containing any other phosphorus compound
                                                                                                          used as a pesticide.

                                                                                                                                                         156
                                                                     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                           157

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                                            Substance                           Exclusions              Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                     Polybrominated biphenyls in controlled EEE               Controlled EEE containing polybrominated
                                                                                                                              biphenyls not exceeding 0.1% maximum         2020 Ed.
                                                                     Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs)                   concentration value by weight of
                                                                     Polybrominated diphenyl ethers in controlled EEE         homogeneous material in controlled EEE.

                                                                     Polychlorinated biphenyls                                Controlled EEE containing polybrominated
                                                                     Polychlorinated naphthalenes                             diphenyl ethers not exceeding 0.1% maximum
                                                                     Polychlorinated terphenyls                               concentration value by weight of
                                                                     Potassium hydroxide                                      homogeneous material in controlled EEE.

                                                                     Prochloraz                                               Substances containing not more than 17%,
                                                                     Pyrethroid compounds used as pesticides, the following:  weight in weight, of potassium hydroxide;
                                                                                                                              Accumulators;
                                                                           Fenvalerate                                        Batteries.

                                                                                                                              Formulated products containing Fenvalerate
                                                                                                                              approved for household use and belonging to
                                                                                            SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                               2020 Ed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                         Substance                                                 Exclusions

                                                                     Lambda-cyhalothrin                                                               Table 5 of the WHO Recommended
                                                                                                                                                      Classification of Pesticides by Hazard

                                                                     Quinuclidin-3-ol                                                                 Substances containing not more than 30%,
                                                                                                                                                      weight in weight, of quinuclidin-3-ol.

                                                                     Ricin                                                                                                                                                 Environmental Protection and

                                                                     Saxitoxin                                                                                                                        Management Act 1999

                                                                     Short-chain chlorinated paraffins (chain lengths at least C10 but not exceeding  Air bag devices in motor vehicles.
                                                                     C13)

                                                                     Sodium azide

                                                                     Sodium hydroxide                                                                 Substances containing not more than 17%,
                                                                                                                                                      weight in weight, of sodium hydroxide;

                                                                                                                                                      Made-up formulated preparations either liquid
                                                                                                                                                      or solid for biochemical tests.

                                                                     Sulphur in diesel intended for use in Singapore as fuel for industrial plants    Sulphur in diesel in which the sulphur content
                                                                                                                                                      is 0.001% or less by weight.

                                                                     Sulphur in petrol intended for use in Singapore as fuel for industrial plants    Sulphur in petrol in which the sulphur content
                                                                                                                                                      is 0.005% or less by weight.

                                                                     Sulphur tetrafluoride

                                                                     Sulphur trioxide                                                                                                                 158
                                                                                     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                                                              159

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                  Substance                                                                     Exclusions
                                                                                                                                              Substances containing not more than 9%,
                                                                     Sulphuric acid                                                           weight in weight, of sulphuric acid;
                                                                                                                                              Accumulators;
                                                                     Sulphuryl chloride                                                       Batteries;                                      Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                     Sulphuryl fluoride                                                       Fire extinguishers;
                                                                     Tetraethyl lead, tetramethyl lead and similar lead containing compounds  Photographic developers containing not more
                                                                     Thallium; its salts                                                      than 20%, weight in weight, of sulphuric acid.
                                                                     Thiodiglycol: Bis(2-hydroxyethyl)sulfide
                                                                                                                                              Substances containing not more than 30%,
                                                                     Thionyl chloride                                                         weight in weight, of thiodiglycol: Bis(2-
                                                                                                                                              hydroxyethyl)sulfide.
                                                                     Titanium tetrachloride                                                   Substances containing not more than 30%,
                                                                                                                                              weight in weight, of thionyl chloride.

                                                                                                                                                                                              2020 Ed.
                                                                                                             SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                      2020 Ed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027                   Substance                                   Exclusions
                                                                                                             Substances containing not more than 30%,
                                                                     Triethanolamine                         weight in weight, of triethanolamine.

                                                                     Tris (2, 3-dibromo-l-propyl) phosphate  Adhesives;                                                            Environmental Protection and
                                                                     Tungsten hexafluoride                   Fillers;
                                                                     UV‑328                                  Heavy‑duty coatings for large steel structures;
                                                                                                             Industrial coatings for motor vehicles,
                                                                                                             engineering machines or rail transport           Management Act 1999
                                                                                                             vehicles;
                                                                                                             Mechanical separators in blood collection
                                                                                                             tubes;
                                                                                                             Medical devices;
                                                                                                             Parts of motor vehicles;
                                                                                                             Photographic paper;
                                                                                                             Plastics;
                                                                                                             Triacetyl cellulose (TAC) film in polarisers;

                                                                                                                                                              160
                                                                     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued                                161

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027  Substance                       Exclusions

                                                                                Replacement parts for any of the following      Management Act 1999  Environmental Protection and
                                                                                articles that were originally manufactured
                                                                                using UV‑328:

                                                                                (a) liquid crystal displays in instruments for
                                                                                      analysis, measurements, control,
                                                                                      monitoring, testing, production or
                                                                                      inspection;

                                                                                (b) medical devices;

                                                                                 (c) motor vehicles;

                                                                                (d) stationary industrial machines used for
                                                                                      agriculture, forestry or construction.

                                                                                                                                2020 Ed.
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                           162

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

                                                             [S 547/2025 wef 27/02/2026]
                                                               [S 87/2025 wef 01/01/2026]
                                                               [S 85/2025 wef 01/08/2025]
                                                             [S 183/2025 wef 24/03/2025]
                                                               [S 81/2023 wef 21/08/2023]
                                                             [S 436/2022 wef 01/03/2023]
                                                             [S 365/2021 wef 03/01/2022]

Note:

In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

“air conditioner” means a self‑contained assembly designed as a unit to
   deliver conditioned air to an enclosed space, room or zone, consisting of
   the following components (whether or not the assembly also consists of
   any means of humidifying, ventilating or exhausting the air):

          (a) a prime source of refrigeration for cooling and dehumidification
               of the air, where all the refrigeration components are
               hermetically sealed;

          (b) a means for the circulation and the cleaning of the air;

          (c) a drain arrangement for the collection or disposal of any
              condensate,

          but does not include a second-hand air conditioner, a cooling tower, a
          chiller, or a large‑scale air conditioner for any industrial or specialised
          use;

“Chemical Weapons Convention” means the Convention on the Prohibition
   of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical
   Weapons and on their Destruction concluded at Paris on 13 January 1993;

                                                                              [S 81/2023 wef 21/08/2023]

“computer” means a portable electronic, magnetic, optical, electrochemical,
   or other data processing device, or a group of such interconnected or
   related devices, performing logical, arithmetic, or storage functions, and
   includes any data storage facility or communications facility directly
   related to or operating in conjunction with the device or group of such
   interconnected or related devices, but does not include —

          (a) an automated typewriter or typesetter;

          (b) a portable hand-held calculator; or

          (c) a similar device which is non-programmable or which does not
              contain any data storage facility;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
     Environmental Protection and

163  Management Act 1999                                      2020 Ed.

     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

     “controlled electrical and electronic equipment” or “controlled EEE” means
        any air conditioner, flat panel display television, mobile phone, phablet,
        portable computer, refrigerator or washing machine, that is designed for
        household use (whether or not the controlled EEE is also designed for any
        non‑household use);

     “crystal glass” means any crystal glass described in Annex I to
        Directive 69/493/EEC of the Council of the European Union on the
        approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to crystal glass;

     “flat panel display television” means a television with a flat display screen (at
        least 11 inches in width), but does not include —

     (a) a second-hand flat panel display television;

     (b) a flat panel display television installed in a car;

     (c) a flat panel display television installed —

     (i) on a building;

     (ii) at a bus stop; or

     (iii) in a structure next to a bus stop,

     (c) for commercial advertisement purposes; or

     (d) a flat panel display television designed for any industrial or
          specialised use;

     “homogeneous material” means —

     (a) a material of uniform composition throughout; or

     (b) a material consisting of a combination of materials that cannot
          be disjointed or separated into different materials by mechanical
          actions such as unscrewing, cutting, crushing, grinding or
          abrasive processes;

     “medical devices” has the meaning given by the First Schedule to the Health
        Products Act 2007;

                                                                                 [S 183/2025 wef 24/03/2025]

     “mobile phone” means a hand-held device that uses a wireless network to
        allow a user to make voice calls, send text messages and transmit data, but
        does not include —

     (a) a second-hand mobile phone;

     (b) a cordless phone, a walkie talkie or a satellite phone; or

     (c) a mobile phone designed for any specialised use;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        164

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

“phablet” means a hand-held device with a combination of the designs and
   functions of both a mobile phone and a tablet, but does not include —

          (a) a second-hand phablet; or

          (b) a phablet designed for any specialised use;

“portable computer” means a computer designed specifically for portability
   and to be operated for extended periods of time (whether with or without a
   direct connection to an alternating current mains power source), but does
   not include —

          (a) a second-hand portable computer;

          (b) a portable computer installed in a car (also known as a carputer);
               or

          (c) a portable computer designed for any specialised use;

“refrigerator” means a self-contained assembly (where all refrigeration
   components are hermetically sealed) consisting of —

          (a) a thermally insulated cabinet for the storage and cooling of
               foodstuffs or other material above 0°C; and

          (b) a refrigerating unit operating on the vapour compression
               principle and arranged to extract heat from within the cabinet
               mentioned in paragraph (a),

          whether or not the refrigerator has any freezer compartment, but does not
          include —

          (c) a second-hand refrigerator;

          (d) a wine cabinet, a portable cooling box, a chiller or a freezer
               chest; or

          (e) a refrigerator designed for any industrial or specialised use;

“television” means an appliance, with an in‑built television tuner, designed
   primarily for the display and possible reception of television broadcast
   and similar services for terrestrial, cable, satellite and broadband network
   transmission of analogue or digital signals, and includes a television with
   additional functions not required for its basic operation as a television, but
   does not include a television displaying broadcasts by means of front or
   rear projection;

“washing machine” means an electrical machine with at least one function
   that uses water for washing, but does not include —

          (a) a second-hand washing machine; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
     Environmental Protection and

165  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

     (b) a large-scale washing machine designed for any industrial or
          specialised use.

                                          PART II

                               GENERAL EXEMPTIONS

Adhesives other than those containing any of the following substances as defined
in Part I of this Schedule: Pentadecafluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and its salts and
related compounds, Perfluorohexane sulfonic acid (PFHxS) and its salts and
related compounds, polychlorinated naphthalenes or short‑chain chlorinated
paraffins;

Anti-fouling compositions other than —

(a) those containing tributyl tin compounds; and

(b) anti-fouling paints containing lead compounds;

Builders’ materials other than those containing asbestos, Dechlorane plus or
UV‑328;

Ceramics;

Distempers;

Electrical valves;

Enamels;

Explosives other than those containing Dechlorane plus or UV‑328;

Fillers other than those containing any of the following substances as defined in
Part I of this Schedule: Pentadecafluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and its salts and
related compounds or Perfluorohexane sulfonic acid (PFHxS) and its salts and
related compounds;

Fireworks other than those containing Dechlorane plus or UV‑328;

Glazes other than those containing any of the following substances as defined in
Part I of this Schedule: Pentadecafluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and its salts and
related compounds, Perfluorohexane sulfonic acid (PFHxS) and its salts and
related compounds, Dechlorane plus or UV‑328;

Glue;

Inks other than those containing Dechlorane plus or UV‑328;

Lacquer solvents other than those containing Dechlorane plus or UV‑328;

Loading materials other than those containing Dechlorane plus or UV‑328;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        166

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

Lubricants other than those containing any of the following substances as
defined in Part I of this Schedule: polychlorinated naphthalenes, short‑chain
chlorinated paraffins, Dechlorane plus or UV‑328;

Matches;

Motor fuels other than diesel oil and petrol;

Paints other than those containing any of the following substances as defined in
Part I of this Schedule: asbestos, formaldehyde, lead compounds, mercury
compounds, Pentadecafluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and its salts and related
compounds, Perfluorohexane sulfonic acid (PFHxS) and its salts and related
compounds, polychlorinated naphthalenes, short‑chain chlorinated paraffins,
Dechlorane plus or UV‑328;

Pharmaceutical aerosols other than those containing Dechlorane plus or UV‑328;

Photographic paper other than those containing any of the following substances
as defined in Part I of this Schedule: Dechlorane plus, mercury or mercury
compounds;

Pigments other than those containing tributyl tin compounds as defined in Part I
of this Schedule;

Plastics other than those containing any of the following substances as defined in
Part I of this Schedule: polychlorinated naphthalenes or short‑chain chlorinated
paraffins;

Propellants other than those containing any of the following substances as
defined in Part I of this Schedule: ozone depleting substances or (if the propellant
is for satellites or spacecraft) mercury or mercury compounds;

Rubber other than those containing Dechlorane plus or UV‑328;

Varnishes other than those containing any of the following substances as defined
in Part I of this Schedule: Pentadecafluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and its salts and
related compounds, Perfluorohexane sulfonic acid (PFHxS) and its salts and
related compounds, Dechlorane plus or UV‑328;

Vascular plants and their seeds.

                                [S 87/2025 wef 01/01/2026]
                               [S 517/2025 wef 01/08/2025]
                                [S 85/2025 wef 01/08/2025]
                               [S 183/2025 wef 24/03/2025]
                               [S 365/2021 wef 03/01/2022]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
     Environmental Protection and

167  Management Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

                        SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
                                         PART III

       LABELS FOR COPPER-BASED ANTI-FOULING PAINT AND
                    ZINC‑BASED ANTI‑CORROSION PAINT

The exterior part of the container must be affixed with a label —
       (a) on which the following words are clearly legible in English:

.    “This paint contains lead.

     Restricted to industrial applications only.

     Do not use on furniture, buildings or in publicly accessible
     areas.”; and

     (b) that conforms to the following dimensions:

              (i) where the capacity of the container does not exceed 3 litres —
                   at least 52 × 74 millimetres;

             (ii) where the capacity of the container exceeds 3 litres but does not
                   exceed 50 litres — at least 74 × 105 millimetres;

             (iii) where the capacity of the container exceeds 50 litres but does
                   not exceed 500 litres — at least 105 × 148 millimetres;

             (iv) where the capacity of the container exceeds 500 litres — at
                   least 148 × 210 millimetres.

                                                                              [S 365/2021 wef 03/01/2022]

                                         PART IV

                       LABELS FOR PAINT CONTAINING
                     FORMALDEHYDE FOR APPLICATION
             ON OUTDOOR AREAS OR FOR INDUSTRIAL USE

The label must —

       (a) contain the following words clearly legible:

.    “This paint contains formaldehyde.

     For application on outdoor areas or for industrial use only.

     Do not apply on indoor areas.”; and

     (b) conform to the following dimensions:

              (i) where the capacity of the container does not exceed 3 litres —
                   at least 52 × 74 millimetres;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                        168

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

          (ii) where the capacity of the container exceeds 3 litres but does not
               exceed 50 litres — at least 74 × 105 millimetres;

          (iii) where the capacity of the container exceeds 50 litres but does
                not exceed 500 litres — at least 105 × 148 millimetres;

          (iv) where the capacity of the container exceeds 500 litres — at
               least 148 × 210 millimetres.

                                               [S 492/2004; S 78/2005; S 571/2005; S 296/2007;
                                                  S 43/2008; S 62/2009; S 373/2011; S 441/2011;

                                               S 373/2013; S 374/2013; S 688/2014; S 263/2016;
                                                S 378/2016; S 27/2017; S 126/2017; S 783/2017;

                                                               S 784/2017; S 359/2018; S 491/2019]

                                                                           [S 87/2025 wef 01/01/2026]

                            THIRD SCHEDULE

                                                                                         Sections 76(1) and 77(1)

                      SUBJECT MATTERS OF REGULATIONS

 1. The prescribing of types of tests to be carried out and the records to be
maintained by occupiers of industrial or trade premises with respect to the
emission of air impurities from, and the consumption of fuel on, such premises.

 2. The prescribing of types of air pollution control equipment that may be used
in or on any industrial or trade premises and the manner in which those equipment
must be operated and maintained.

 3. The prescribing of assistance and facilities (including access to, and the
means of making examinations, inspections and tests) to be provided by the
occupiers of industrial or trade premises to enable the Director‑General and
authorised officers to exercise their powers under this Act.

 4. The prescribing of standards of concentration or rates of emission of air
impurities from any source of air pollution, including motor vehicles and
industrial plant, and the method of making tests for the purposes of ascertaining
whether any of the provisions of this Act or any conditions attached to a licence or
to an exemption are being or have been complied with.

 5. The regulation or restriction of import, export, sale or supply of industrial
plant which do not comply with standards prescribed under this Act or the
regulations for the purpose of air pollution control.

 6. The regulation or prohibition of either generally or in specified areas and
either at all times or between specified hours the use of industrial plants for the
purpose of air pollution control.

 7. The prescribing of types and composition of fuel to be used.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
     Environmental Protection and

169  Management Act 1999                                                 2020 Ed.

     THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

 8. The prescribing of returns of any information, statistics and data relating to
air, water or noise pollution to be furnished to the Director‑General and the
contents thereof, and the persons or classes of persons who are required to furnish
such returns.

9. The prevention of misuse or contamination of water.

 10. The prescribing of standards of concentration or rates of discharge of trade
effluent from any premises which may be discharged into drains or the sea.

11. The control of discharge of any trade effluent into drains and sea.

 12. The control, by licensing or otherwise, of the storage, removal and disposal
of toxic industrial waste and trade effluent.

13. The prescribing of fees for the collection and disposal of any trade effluent.

14. The import, export, use and control of hazardous substances.

15. The storage, transport and labelling of hazardous substances.

 16. The sale, whether by wholesale or retail, or the supply of hazardous
substances, by or to any person or class of persons which include regulating or
restricting the sale or supply of hazardous substances by persons licensed under
this Act and prohibiting the sale of any specified hazardous substance or class of
hazardous substances by any class of such persons.

17. The prescribing of noise standards for the purposes of this Act.

 18. The prescribing of standards of emission of noise from any source of noise
pollution, and the methods of determining level, nature, character or quality of
noise made or emitted.

 19. The regulation or restriction of import, sale and use of industrial plants for
the purpose of noise control.

 20. The specification of limits of permitted noise levels from particular
premises, activities, equipment, appliances, machinery and fuel burning
equipment, and the requirement of labelling any such equipment, appliances,
machinery and fuel burning equipment to show the specified limits.

 21. The specification of the times at which specified levels of noise may not be
emitted from particular premises, activities, equipment, appliances, machinery
and fuel burning equipment.

 21A. The restriction or prohibition of building works either generally or in
specified areas during Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays (including between
the hours of 10 p.m. on the eve of a public holiday and 7 a.m. on the day after the
public holiday) and between the hours of 12 midnight and 7 a.m. on Mondays for
the purpose of noise control.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          Environmental Protection and

2020 Ed.  Management Act 1999                                           170

          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

 22. The prescribing of codes of practice relating to the control and regulation of
noise levels in work places and construction sites.

 22A. The prescribing of matters relating to the plans of controlled works to be
lodged or certified under Part 9A, including a requirement for the plans to be
prepared by persons with prescribed qualifications and expertise.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

 22B. The prescribing of standards and codes of practice for the purposes of Part
9A, including by applying, adopting or incorporating by reference —

(a) either wholly or partially;

(b) with or without modification; or

(c) either specifically or by reference,

any matter contained in any standards or codes of practice, as in force or published
at a particular time or as in force or published from time to time, relating to the
prevention, reduction or control of pollution of the environment from completed
buildings or industrial plants.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

 22C. The prescribing of matters necessary for the carrying out of section 33C,
including requiring controlled works exempt from section 33B under regulations
made under section 33C to be carried out in accordance with prescribed
requirements.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

 22D. The prescribing of fees and charges for applications, lodgments and
submission of documents for the purposes of Part 9A.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

 23. The prescribing of standards, codes of practice for the design, manufacture
and use of equipment, appliances, machinery, industrial plant and fuel burning
equipment to reduce pollution.

23A. The prescribing of greenhouse gases for the purposes of Part 10A.

 23B. The prescribing of the IPCC Assessment Report for the purposes of
Part 10A.

 23C. The registration and regulation of regulated goods and the import or supply
of regulated goods, including matters relating to the following:

(a) global warming potential limits for regulated goods;

(b) requirements for regulated goods relating to environmental protection
     and management;

(c) requirements relating to the labelling of regulated goods.

                                                                     [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
     Environmental Protection and

171  Management Act 1999           2020 Ed.

     THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

 23D. The registration and regulation of suppliers of regulated goods, including
their duties and obligations.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

 23E. The registration and regulation of registered GHG entities, including their
duties and obligations.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

 23F. The regulation of competent persons, including matters relating to their
duties and obligations.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

 23G. The regulation of regulated GHG works, including the manner in which
regulated GHG works must be carried out.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/10/2022]

 24. The prescribing of fees for licences and the prescribing of fees and charges
for any of the purposes of this Act or the regulations.

 25. The prescribing of penalty interest for late payment of any charges or fees
prescribed by this Act or the regulations.

                                                                                                [26/2007; 12/2011]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
          LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
        MANAGEMENT ACT 1999

(Formerly known as the Environmental Pollution Control Act (2002 Ed.))

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 9 of 1999 — Environmental Pollution Control Act 1999

Date of First Reading     : 20.1.99
                                21.1.99))

Date of Second and Third  : 11.2.99
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1.4.99

2. 2000 Revised Edition — Environmental Pollution Control Act

Date of operation         : 30 December 2000

3. G. N. No. S 605/2000 — Environmental Pollution Control (Amendment
                                   Of Second Schedule) Order 2000

Date of commencement      : 1 January 2001

4. Act 4 of 2002 — National Environment Agency Act 2002

Date of First Reading     : 3.5.2002
                                4.5.2002))

Date of Second and Third  : 24.5.2002
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1.7.2002

5. 2002 Revised Edition — Environmental Protection and Management Act

Date of operation         : 31 December 2002

6. G. N. No. S 492/2004 — Environmental Pollution Control Act
                                   (Amendment Of Second Schedule) Order 2004

Date of commencement      : 15 September 2004

7. G. N. No. S 78/2005 — Environmental Pollution Control Act
                                  (Amendment Of Second Schedule) Order 2005

Date of commencement      : 16 February 2005

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
                          ii

8. Act 47 of 2004 — Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act
                           2004

Date of First Reading     : 6 February 2004

Date of Second and Third  : 19 October 2004
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 April 2005

9. G. N. No. S 571/2005 — Environmental Pollution Control Act
                                   (Amendment Of Second Schedule) (No. 2)
                                   Order 2005

Date of commencement      : 1 December 2005

10. G. N. No. S 296/2007 — Environmental Pollution Control Act
                                     (Amendment Of Second Schedule) Order 2007

Date of commencement      : 1 July 2007

11. Act 26 of 2007 — Environmental Pollution Control (Amendment) Act
                            2007

Date of First Reading     : 9 April 2007
                                10 April 2007))

Date of Second and Third  : 21 May 2007
Readings

Dates of commencement     : 1 October 2007 (Section 5) (Section 5)
                                1 January 2008

12. G. N. No. S 43/2008 — Environmental Protection And Management Act
                                   (Amendment Of Second Schedule) Order 2008

Date of commencement      : 31 January 2008

13. G. N. No. S 62/2009 — Environmental Protection And Management Act
                                   (Amendment Of Second Schedule) Order 2009

Date of commencement      : 1 July 2009

14. Act 12 of 2011 — Environmental Protection And Management
                            (Amendment) Act 2011

Date of First Reading     : 14 February 2011
                                14 February 2011))

Date of Second and Third  : 10 March 2011
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 September 2011

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
                          iii

15. G. N. No. S 441/2011 — Environmental Protection and Management Act
                                    (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 2)
                                    Order 2011

Date of commencement      : 1 September 2011

16. G. N. No. S 373/2011 — Environmental Protection and Management Act
                                    (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2011

Date of commencement      : 1 July 2012

17. G. N. No. S 373/2013 — Environmental Protection and Management Act
                                    (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2013

Date of commencement      : 1 July 2013

18. Act 11 of 2012 — Energy Conservation Act 2012

Date of First Reading     : 8 March 2012
                                8 March 2012))

Date of Second and Third  : 9 April 2012
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 September 2013

19. G. N. No. S 374/2013 — Environmental Protection and Management Act
                                    (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 2)
                                    Order 2013

Date of commencement      : 1 October 2013

20. G.N. No. S 688/2014 — Environmental Protection and Management Act
                                   (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2014

Date of commencement      : 1 November 2014

21. Act 4 of 2016 — National Environment Agency (Miscellaneous
                           Amendments) Act 2016

Date of First Reading     : 28 January 2016
                                28 January 2016))

Date of Second and Third  : 1 March 2016
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 May 2016

22. G.N. No. S 378/2016 — Environmental Protection and Management Act
                                   (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 2)
                                   Order 2016

Date of commencement      : 1 January 2017

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
                          iv

23. G.N. No. S 263/2016 — Environmental Protection and Management Act
                                   (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2016

Date of commencement      : 1 June 2017

24. G.N. No. S 27/2017 — Environmental Protection and Management Act
                                   (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2017

Date of commencement      : 1 July 2017

25. Act 24 of 2017 — Energy Conservation (Amendment) Act 2017

Date of First Reading     : 9 March 2017))
                                9 March 2017

Date of Second and Third  : 3 April 2017
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 January 2018

26. G.N. No. S 126/2017 — Environmental Protection and Management Act
                                   (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 2)
                                   Order 2017

Date of commencement      : 31 March 2018

27. G.N. No. S 783/2017 — Environmental Protection and Management Act
                                   (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 3)
                                   Order 2017

Date of commencement      : 30 June 2018

28. G.N. No. S 359/2018 — Environmental Protection and Management Act
                                   (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2018

Date of commencement      : 1 January 2019

29. G.N. No. S 784/2017 — Environmental Protection and Management Act
                                   (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 4)
                                   Order 2017

Date of commencement      : 1 January 2020

30. G. N. No. S 491/2019 — Environmental Protection and Management Act
                                    (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2019

Date of commencement      : 12 February 2020

31. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019

Date of First Reading     : 7 October 2019
                                (Bill No. 32/2019)

Date of Second and Third  : 5 November 2019
Readings

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
                          v

Date of commencement      : 2 January 2021

32. Act 4 of 2021 — Statute Law Reform Act 2021

Date of First Reading     : 3 November 2020
                                (Bill No. 45/2020)

Date of Second and Third  : 5 January 2021
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 March 2021

33. 2020 Revised Edition — Environmental Protection and Management Act
                                    1999

Date of operation         : 31 December 2021

34. G.N. No. S 365/2021 — Environmental Protection and Management Act
                                   (Amendment of Second Schedule) Order 2021

Date of commencement      : 3 January 2022

35. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021

Bill                      : 18/2021

First Reading             : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement              : 1 April 2022

36. Act 24 of 2021 — Environmental Protection and Management
                             (Amendment) Act 2021

Date of First Reading     : 2 August 2021
                                (Bill No. 21/2021)

Date of Second and Third  : 13 September 2021
Readings

Date of commencement      : 28 February 2022
                                1 October 2022

37. G.N. No. S 436/2022 — Environmental Protection and Management Act
                                   1999 (Amendment of Second Schedule)
                                   Order 2022

Date of commencement      : 1 March 2023

38. G.N. No. S 81/2023 — Environmental Protection and Management Act
                                   1999 (Amendment of Second Schedule)
                                   Order 2023

Date of commencement      : 21 August 2023

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
                          vi

39. Act 23 of 2023 — Building and Related Works (Miscellaneous
                             Amendments) Act 2023

Date of First Reading     : 9 May 2023
                                (Bill No. 19/2023)

Date of Second and Third  : 4 July 2023
Readings

Date of commencement      : 18 December 2023

40. Act 5 of 2025 — Electronic Gazette and Legislation Act 2025

Bill                      : 47/2024

First Reading             : 11 November 2024

Second and Third Readings : 7 January 2025

Commencement              : 9 March 2025

41. G.N. No. S 183/2025 — Environment Protection and Management Act
                                    1999 (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 3)
                                    Order 2025

Date of commencement      : 24 March 2025

42. G. N. No. S 85/2025 — Environmental Protection and Management Act
                                   1999 (Amendment of Second Schedule)
                                   Order 2025

Date of commencement      : 1 August 2025

43. G.N. No. S 517/2025 — Environment Protection and Management Act
                                    1999 (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 4)
                                    Order 2025

Date of commencement      : 1 August 2025

44. Act 12 of 2020 — Building Control (Amendment) Act 2020

Bill                      : 10/2020

First Reading             : 4 February 2020

Second and Third Readings : 6 March 2020

Commencement              : 1 October 2025

45. G. N. No. S 87/2025 — Environmental Protection and Management Act
                                   1999 (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 2)
                                   Order 2025

Date of commencement      : 1 January 2026

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
                      vii

46. G.N. No. S 547/2025 — Environmental Protection and Management Act
                                   1999 (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 5)
                                   Order 2025

Date of commencement  : 27 February 2026

47. Act 8 of 2026 — Coastal Protection and Other Amendments Act 2026

Bill                  : 2/2026

First Reading         : 3 February 2026

Second and Third Readings : 6 March 2026

Commencement          : 29 May 2026

48. Act 15 of 2026 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2026

Bill                  : 12/2026

First Reading         : 7 April 2026

Second and Third Readings : 7 May 2026

Commencement          : 1 July 2026

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
                   COMPARATIVE TABLE

         ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
                 MANAGEMENT ACT 1999

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

         2020 Ed.                    2002 Ed.
                   33—(1A)
33—(2)
   (3)                (2)
   (4)                (3)
   (5)                (4)
   (6)                (4A)
   (7)                (4B)
   (8)                (5)
   (9)                (6)
   (10)               (7)
   (11)               (8)
   (12)               (9)
   (13)               (10)
                   PART XA
—                  40A [Repealed by Act 11 of 2012]
—                  40B [Repealed by Act 11 of 2012]
—                  40C [Repealed by Act 11 of 2012]
—                  40D [Repealed by Act 11 of 2012]
—                  40E [Repealed by Act 11 of 2012]
—                  40F [Repealed by Act 11 of 2012]
—                  40G [Repealed by Act 11 of 2012]
—                  40H [Repealed by Act 11 of 2012]
—                  40I [Repealed by Act 11 of 2012]
—                  40J [Repealed by Act 11 of 2012]
—

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
                 2020 Ed.  ii
—
—                                             2002 Ed.
78                          40K [Repealed by Act 11 of 2012]
                            78—(1) [Deleted by Act 4 of 2021]

                                (2)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026 to 1/1/2027
