Western Australia
Royal Commission Into Commercial Activities of Government Act 1992

Western Australia
Royal Commission Into Commercial Activities of Government Act 1992
Contents
1.	Short title	1
2.	Commencement	1
3.	Interpretation	1
4.	Terms of Reference	2
	Notes
	Compilation table	4
	Defined terms


Western Australia
Royal Commission Into Commercial Activities of Government Act 1992
An Act relating to the Commission issued by the Governor and published in the Western Australian Government Gazette (No. 4 Special) on 8 January 1991, appointing the 3 persons named therein to be a Royal Commission to inquire and report as to certain matters specified therein, which Commission is known as the “Royal Commission into Commercial Activities of Government and other matters”.
The Parliament of Western Australia enacts as follows:
1.	Short title
		This Act may be cited as the Royal Commission into Commercial Activities of Government Act 1992.
2.	Commencement
		This Act shall come into operation on the day on which it receives the Royal Assent.
3.	Interpretation
		In this Act unless the contrary intention appears, the Commission means the Commission issued by the Governor and published in the Government Gazette (No. 4 Special) on 8 January 1991, appointing the 3 persons named therein to be a Royal Commission and the Commissioners means the 3 persons so appointed.
4.	Terms of Reference
		The Commissioners shall inquire and report as required by the terms of reference of the Commission, but as though —
	(a)	paragraph 1. was amended to read —
“
	1.	To inquire and report whether there has been —
	(a)	corruption;
	(b)	illegal conduct; or
	(c)	improper conduct,
		by any person or corporation in the affairs, investment decisions and business dealings of the Government of Western Australia or its agencies, instrumentalities and corporations in respect of the matters referred to in Schedule 1, and to further report whether —
	(d)	any matter should be referred to an appropriate authority with a view to the institution of criminal proceedings; or
	(e)	changes in the law of the State, or in administrative or decision making procedures, are necessary or desirable in the public interest.
”; and
	(b)	paragraph 2. was amended to read —
“
	2.	To inquire and report whether there has been —
	(a)	corruption;
	(b)	illegal conduct; or
	(c)	improper conduct,
		by any person or corporation in respect of the matters referred to in Schedule 2 which in your view warrant further investigation after present police inquiries are completed, and to further report whether —
	(d)	any matter should be referred to an appropriate authority with a view to the institution of criminal proceedings; or
	(e)	changes in the law of the State, or in administrative or decision making procedures, are necessary or desirable in the public interest.
”.

Notes
1.	This is a compilation of the Royal Commission into Commercial Activities of Government Act 1992 and includes all amendments effected by the other Acts referred to in the following Table.
Compilation table
Short title
Number and year
Assent
Commencement
Royal Commission into Commercial Activities of Government Act 1992
9 of 1992
16 Jun 1992
16 Jun 1992


Defined terms

[This is a list of terms defined and the provisions where they are defined.  The list is not part of the law.]
	Defined term	Provision(s)
Commission	3
Commissioners	3

