THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
               SINGAPORE CONVENTION ON
                     MEDIATION ACT 2020

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                                  2020 Ed.

         Singapore Convention on
            Mediation Act 2020

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
     1.
     2.  Short title
     3.  Interpretation
     4.  Application of Act
     5.  Applications in respect of international settlement agreements
         Grant of permission to record international settlement agreement
     6.  as order of High Court
     7.  Requirements for applications under section 4
     8.  Grounds for refusing application
     9.  Setting aside of order of court
   10.   Parallel applications or claims
   11.   Rules of Court
         Regulations
         The Schedule — United Nations Convention on

                               International Settlement Agreements
                               Resulting from Mediation

An Act to give effect to the United Nations Convention on
  International Settlement Agreements Resulting from Mediation,
  also known as the Singapore Convention on Mediation, opened for
  signature on 7 August 2019 in Singapore.
                                                         [12 September 2020]

Short title
 1. This Act is the Singapore Convention on Mediation Act 2020.

Interpretation
 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “Convention” means the United Nations Convention on
         International Settlement Agreements Resulting from

                                                           1

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Singapore Convention on

2020 Ed.  Mediation Act 2020                                       2

          Mediation, also known as the Singapore Convention on
          Mediation, opened for signature on 7 August 2019 in
          Singapore, a copy of the English text of which is set out in
          the Schedule;

“international settlement agreement” means a settlement
   agreement to which this Act applies under section 3;

“mediation” means a process (whether referred to by the
   expression “mediation” or “conciliation” or any term of
   similar import) —

          (a) by which the parties to the mediation attempt to reach
               an amicable settlement of their dispute with the
               assistance of one or more third parties (called in this
               Act the mediator); and

          (b) in which the mediator lacks the authority to impose a
               solution upon the parties to the dispute;

“parties”, in relation to a mediation, does not include any
   mediator conducting the mediation;

“settlement agreement” means an agreement resulting from
   mediation and concluded in writing by the parties to the
   mediation to resolve a commercial dispute.

 (2) For the purposes of the definition of “settlement agreement” in
subsection (1) —

(a) a settlement agreement is in writing if the contents of the
     settlement agreement are recorded in any form; and

(b) the requirement that a settlement agreement be in writing is
     met by an electronic communication if the information
     contained in the communication is accessible to be useable
     for subsequent reference.

 (3) For the purposes of this Act, a reference to a State is to be read in
conformity with articles 12 and 13 of the Convention.

 (4) A reference in this Act to the High Court is, on or after 2 January
2021, a reference to the General Division of the High Court.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
   Singapore Convention on

3  Mediation Act 2020                                       2020 Ed.

 (5) A reference in this Act to the Court of Appeal is, on or after
2 January 2021, a reference to the Appellate Division of the High
Court or the Court of Appeal.

Application of Act

 3.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), this Act applies to a settlement
agreement which, at the time of its conclusion, is international within
the meaning of article 1, paragraph 1(a) and (b), read with article 2,
paragraph 1, of the Convention.

 (2) This Act does not apply to —

       (a) a settlement agreement mentioned in article 1, paragraph 2
            or 3 of the Convention; or

       (b) a settlement agreement in relation to which a reservation
            by Singapore under article 8 of the Convention has been
            made and the reservation is not withdrawn.

 (3) Articles 12 and 13 of the Convention apply to the interpretation
of the articles of the Convention mentioned in subsections (1) and (2).

 (4) This Act binds the Government.

Applications in respect of international settlement agreements

 4.—(1) Subject to this Act, a party to an international settlement
agreement may —

       (a) apply to the High Court to record the agreement as an order
            of court for the purposes of —

               (i) enforcing the agreement in Singapore; or

              (ii) invoking the agreement in any court proceedings in
                   Singapore involving a dispute concerning a matter
                   that the party to the international settlement
                   agreement claims was already resolved by the
                   agreement, in order to prove that the matter has
                   already been resolved; or

       (b) in any proceedings in the High Court (whether exercising
            its original or appellate jurisdiction), or in any proceedings
            in the Court of Appeal —

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Singapore Convention on

2020 Ed.  Mediation Act 2020                                       4

          (i) to which the party to the international settlement
              agreement is a party; and

          (ii) which involves a dispute concerning a matter that the
               party claims was already resolved by the agreement,

          apply to the High Court or the Court of Appeal (as the case
          may be) to invoke the agreement in the proceedings in
          order to prove that the matter has already been resolved.

 (2) This section does not limit or restrict any right or remedy of a
party to an international settlement agreement that exists or may arise
apart from this Act.

Grant of permission to record international settlement
agreement as order of High Court

 5.—(1) The High Court may, following an application under
section 4(1)(a), grant permission to record an international
settlement agreement as an order of court if the requirements of
this Act are complied with.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (2) Subject to this Act, an international settlement agreement that is
recorded by the High Court as an order of court —

       (a) may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment given,
            or an order made, by the High Court; and

       (b) may be relied on by the party who made the application
            under section 4(1)(a) by way of defence, set-off or
            otherwise in any court proceedings.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Requirements for applications under section 4

 6.—(1) A party to an international settlement agreement making an
application mentioned in section 4(1) must provide to the court before
which the application is made the following documents and evidence:

       (a) the international settlement agreement signed by the
            parties to the agreement or a certified copy of the signed
            agreement;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
   Singapore Convention on

5  Mediation Act 2020                                       2020 Ed.

   (b) evidence that the international settlement agreement
        resulted from mediation, such as —

   (i) the signature on the international settlement
       agreement of the mediator conducting the mediation;

   (ii) a document signed by the mediator conducting the
        mediation indicating that the mediation was carried
        out;

   (iii) an attestation by the institution that administered the
         mediation; or

   (iv) in the absence of sub-paragraph (i), (ii) or (iii), any
        other evidence acceptable to the court before which
        the application is made.

 (2) A requirement under subsection (1) that the international
settlement agreement be signed by the parties to the agreement or
by the mediator conducting the mediation that resulted in the
international settlement agreement is met, in relation to an electronic
communication, if —

   (a) a method is used to identify the parties or the mediator
        (as the case may be) and to indicate the parties’ or
        mediator’s intention (as the case may be) in respect of the
        information contained in the electronic communication;

        and

   (b) the method used is either —

   (i) as reliable as is appropriate for the purpose for which
       the electronic communication was generated or
       communicated, in the light of all the
       circumstances, including any relevant agreement; or

   (ii) proven in fact to have fulfilled the functions
        described in paragraph (a), by itself or together
        with further evidence.

 (3) A party to the international settlement agreement making an
application mentioned in section 4(1) may be required by the court
before which the application is made to provide any necessary

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Singapore Convention on

2020 Ed.  Mediation Act 2020                                       6

document in order to verify that the requirements of the Convention
have been complied with.

 (4) If the international settlement agreement is not in English, the
international settlement agreement must be accompanied by a
certified translation of it in the English language.

(5) In this section, “certified” means certified —

(a) in the manner set out in rules prescribed by the Rules
     Committee constituted under section 80(3) of the Supreme
     Court of Judicature Act 1969; or

(b) in the manner determined by the court before which the
     application mentioned in section 4(1) is made.

Grounds for refusing application

 7.—(1) The court before which an application mentioned in
section 4(1) is made may, at the request of the party (A) against
whom the international settlement agreement is sought to be enforced
or invoked, refuse to grant the application if A furnishes proof of any
of the grounds set out in subsection (2).

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the grounds are the
following:

       (a) that a party to the international settlement agreement was
            under some incapacity;

       (b) that the international settlement agreement —

               (i) is null and void, inoperative or incapable of being
                   performed under the law to which the parties have
                   validly subjected it or, failing any indication thereon,
                   under the law deemed applicable by the court before
                   which the application is made;

              (ii) is not binding, or is not final, according to its terms;
                   or

             (iii) has been subsequently modified;

       (c) that the obligations in the international settlement
            agreement —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
               Singapore Convention on

7              Mediation Act 2020                           2020 Ed.

   (i) have been performed; or

   (ii) are not clear or comprehensible;

   (d) that it is contrary to the terms of the international
        settlement agreement for the application mentioned in
        section 4(1) to be granted;

   (e) that there was a serious breach by the mediator who
       conducted the mediation that resulted in the international
       settlement agreement of the standards applicable to the
       mediator, or the mediation, without which breach A would
       not have entered into the international settlement
       agreement;

   (f) that —

   (i) there was a failure by the mediator to disclose to the
       parties to the international settlement agreement
       circumstances that raise justifiable doubts as to the
       mediator’s impartiality or independence; and

   (ii) the failure to disclose mentioned in sub-paragraph (i)
        had a material impact or undue influence on a party,
        without which failure that party would not have
        entered into the international settlement agreement.

 (3) In addition to subsection (1), the court before which an
application mentioned in section 4(1) is made may also refuse to
grant the application if —

   (a) it would be contrary to the public policy of Singapore for
        the application to be granted; or

   (b) the subject matter of the dispute purported to be settled by
        the international settlement agreement is not capable of
        settlement by mediation under the law in force in
        Singapore.

Setting aside of order of court

 8. Where an international settlement agreement has been recorded
as an order of court under section 5(2) in the absence of the party
against whom the order of court is sought to be enforced or invoked,

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Singapore Convention on

2020 Ed.  Mediation Act 2020                                       8

the High Court may, upon the application of that party, set aside the
order of court on any ground on which the High Court may refuse to
grant the application mentioned in section 4(1)(a) to record the
international settlement agreement as an order of court.

Parallel applications or claims

 9. If an application or a claim relating to an international settlement
agreement has been made to a court of any State, any arbitral tribunal
or any other competent authority which may affect the grant of an
application mentioned in section 4(1), the court before which the
application mentioned in section 4(1) is made may —

       (a) if the court before which the application is made considers
            it proper, adjourn the decision on the application; and

       (b) on the request of a party, order the other party to give
            suitable security.

Rules of Court

 10. The Rules Committee constituted under section 80(3) of the
Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969 may make Rules of Court with
respect to —

       (a) applications and other proceedings, and the practice and
            procedure, of any court in respect of any matter under this
            Act; and

       (b) the fees and costs of those applications and other
            proceedings.

Regulations

 11.—(1) The Minister may make regulations prescribing matters
required or permitted by this Act to be prescribed, or necessary or
convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this
Act.

 (2) The power conferred by subsection (1) does not extend to any
matter for which Rules of Court mentioned in section 10 may be
made.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
   Singapore Convention on

9  Mediation Act 2020                                       2020 Ed.

   THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                         Section 2(1)

                       UNITED NATIONS CONVENTION ON
                INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENT AGREEMENTS

                           RESULTING FROM MEDIATION

                                         PREAMBLE

   The Parties to this Convention,

   Recognizing the value for international trade of mediation as a method for
settling commercial disputes in which the parties in dispute request a third person
or persons to assist them in their attempt to settle the dispute amicably,

    Noting that mediation is increasingly used in international and domestic
commercial practice as an alternative to litigation,

   Considering that the use of mediation results in significant benefits, such as
reducing the instances where a dispute leads to the termination of a commercial
relationship, facilitating the administration of international transactions by
commercial parties and producing savings in the administration of justice by
States,

   Convinced that the establishment of a framework for international settlement
agreements resulting from mediation that is acceptable to States with different
legal, social and economic systems would contribute to the development of
harmonious international economic relations,

   Have agreed as follows:

Article 1. Scope of application

 1. This Convention applies to an agreement resulting from mediation and
concluded in writing by parties to resolve a commercial dispute (“settlement
agreement”) which, at the time of its conclusion, is international in that:

        (a) At least two parties to the settlement agreement have their places of
             business in different States; or

        (b) The State in which the parties to the settlement agreement have their
             places of business is different from either:

                  (i) The State in which a substantial part of the obligations under
                      the settlement agreement is performed; or

                 (ii) The State with which the subject matter of the settlement
                      agreement is most closely connected.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Singapore Convention on

2020 Ed.  Mediation Act 2020                                       10

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

2. This Convention does not apply to settlement agreements:

(a) Concluded to resolve a dispute arising from transactions engaged in by
     one of the parties (a consumer) for personal, family or household
     purposes;

(b) Relating to family, inheritance or employment law.

3. This Convention does not apply to:

(a) Settlement agreements:

          (i) That have been approved by a court or concluded in the course
              of proceedings before a court; and

          (ii) That are enforceable as a judgment in the State of that court;

(b) Settlement agreements that have been recorded and are enforceable as
     an arbitral award.

Article 2. Definitions

 1. For the purposes of article 1, paragraph 1:

        (a) If a party has more than one place of business, the relevant place of
             business is that which has the closest relationship to the dispute
             resolved by the settlement agreement, having regard to the
             circumstances known to, or contemplated by, the parties at the time
             of the conclusion of the settlement agreement;

        (b) If a party does not have a place of business, reference is to be made to
             the party’s habitual residence.

 2. A settlement agreement is “in writing” if its content is recorded in any form.
The requirement that a settlement agreement be in writing is met by an electronic
communication if the information contained therein is accessible so as to be
useable for subsequent reference.

 3. “Mediation” means a process, irrespective of the expression used or the basis
upon which the process is carried out, whereby parties attempt to reach an
amicable settlement of their dispute with the assistance of a third person or persons
(“the mediator”) lacking the authority to impose a solution upon the parties to the
dispute.

Article 3. General principles

 1. Each Party to the Convention shall enforce a settlement agreement in
accordance with its rules of procedure and under the conditions laid down in this
Convention.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Singapore Convention on

11  Mediation Act 2020                                       2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

 2. If a dispute arises concerning a matter that a party claims was already resolved
by a settlement agreement, a Party to the Convention shall allow the party to
invoke the settlement agreement in accordance with its rules of procedure and
under the conditions laid down in this Convention, in order to prove that the matter
has already been resolved.

Article 4. Requirements for reliance on settlement agreements

 1. A party relying on a settlement agreement under this Convention shall supply
to the competent authority of the Party to the Convention where relief is sought:

        (a) The settlement agreement signed by the parties;

        (b) Evidence that the settlement agreement resulted from mediation, such
             as:

                  (i) The mediator’s signature on the settlement agreement;

                 (ii) A document signed by the mediator indicating that the
                      mediation was carried out;

                (iii) An attestation by the institution that administered the
                      mediation; or

                (iv) In the absence of (i), (ii) or (iii), any other evidence acceptable
                      to the competent authority.

 2. The requirement that a settlement agreement shall be signed by the parties or,
where applicable, the mediator is met in relation to an electronic communication
if:

        (a) A method is used to identify the parties or the mediator and to indicate
             the parties’ or mediator’s intention in respect of the information
             contained in the electronic communication; and

        (b) The method used is either:

                  (i) As reliable as appropriate for the purpose for which the
                      electronic communication was generated or communicated, in
                      the light of all the circumstances, including any relevant
                      agreement; or

                 (ii) Proven in fact to have fulfilled the functions described in
                      subparagraph (a) above, by itself or together with further
                      evidence.

 3. If the settlement agreement is not in an official language of the Party to the
Convention where relief is sought, the competent authority may request a
translation thereof into such language.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Singapore Convention on

2020 Ed.  Mediation Act 2020                                       12

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

 4. The competent authority may require any necessary document in order to
verify that the requirements of the Convention have been complied with.

 5. When considering the request for relief, the competent authority shall act
expeditiously.

Article 5. Grounds for refusing to grant relief

 1. The competent authority of the Party to the Convention where relief is sought
under article 4 may refuse to grant relief at the request of the party against whom
the relief is sought only if that party furnishes to the competent authority proof
that:

        (a) A party to the settlement agreement was under some incapacity;

        (b) The settlement agreement sought to be relied upon:

                  (i) Is null and void, inoperative or incapable of being performed
                      under the law to which the parties have validly subjected it or,
                      failing any indication thereon, under the law deemed
                      applicable by the competent authority of the Party to the
                      Convention where relief is sought under article 4;

                 (ii) Is not binding, or is not final, according to its terms; or

                (iii) Has been subsequently modified;

        (c) The obligations in the settlement agreement:

                  (i) Have been performed; or

                 (ii) Are not clear or comprehensible;

        (d) Granting relief would be contrary to the terms of the settlement
             agreement;

        (e) There was a serious breach by the mediator of standards applicable to
             the mediator or the mediation without which breach that party would
             not have entered into the settlement agreement; or

         (f) There was a failure by the mediator to disclose to the parties
             circumstances that raise justifiable doubts as to the mediator’s
             impartiality or independence and such failure to disclose had a
             material impact or undue influence on a party without which failure
             that party would not have entered into the settlement agreement.

 2. The competent authority of the Party to the Convention where relief is sought
under article 4 may also refuse to grant relief if it finds that:

        (a) Granting relief would be contrary to the public policy of that Party; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Singapore Convention on

13  Mediation Act 2020                                       2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

    (b) The subject matter of the dispute is not capable of settlement by
         mediation under the law of that Party.

Article 6. Parallel applications or claims

  If an application or a claim relating to a settlement agreement has been made to a
court, an arbitral tribunal or any other competent authority which may affect the
relief being sought under article 4, the competent authority of the Party to the
Convention where such relief is sought may, if it considers it proper, adjourn the
decision and may also, on the request of a party, order the other party to give
suitable security.

Article 7. Other laws or treaties

  This Convention shall not deprive any interested party of any right it may have
to avail itself of a settlement agreement in the manner and to the extent allowed by
the law or the treaties of the Party to the Convention where such settlement
agreement is sought to be relied upon.

Article 8. Reservations

 1. A Party to the Convention may declare that:

        (a) It shall not apply this Convention to settlement agreements to which it
             is a party, or to which any governmental agencies or any person acting
             on behalf of a governmental agency is a party, to the extent specified in
             the declaration;

        (b) It shall apply this Convention only to the extent that the parties to the
             settlement agreement have agreed to the application of the Convention.

 2. No reservations are permitted except those expressly authorized in this article.

 3. Reservations may be made by a Party to the Convention at any time.
Reservations made at the time of signature shall be subject to confirmation upon
ratification, acceptance or approval. Such reservations shall take effect
simultaneously with the entry into force of this Convention in respect of the
Party to the Convention concerned. Reservations made at the time of ratification,
acceptance or approval of this Convention or accession thereto, or at the time of
making a declaration under article 13 shall take effect simultaneously with the
entry into force of this Convention in respect of the Party to the Convention
concerned. Reservations deposited after the entry into force of the Convention for
that Party to the Convention shall take effect six months after the date of the
deposit.

 4. Reservations and their confirmations shall be deposited with the depositary.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Singapore Convention on

2020 Ed.  Mediation Act 2020                                       14

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

 5. Any Party to the Convention that makes a reservation under this Convention
may withdraw it at any time. Such withdrawals are to be deposited with the
depositary, and shall take effect six months after deposit.

Article 9. Effect on settlement agreements

   The Convention and any reservation or withdrawal thereof shall apply only to
settlement agreements concluded after the date when the Convention, reservation
or withdrawal thereof enters into force for the Party to the Convention concerned.

Article 10. Depositary

    The Secretary-General of the United Nations is hereby designated as the
depositary of this Convention.

Article 11. Signature, ratification, acceptance, approval, accession

 1. This Convention is open for signature by all States in Singapore, on 7 August
2019, and thereafter at United Nations Headquarters in New York.

 2. This Convention is subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by the
signatories.

 3. This Convention is open for accession by all States that are not signatories as
from the date it is open for signature.

 4. Instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession are to be
deposited with the depositary.

Article 12. Participation by regional economic integration organizations

 1. A regional economic integration organization that is constituted by sovereign
States and has competence over certain matters governed by this Convention may
similarly sign, ratify, accept, approve or accede to this Convention. The regional
economic integration organization shall in that case have the rights and obligations
of a Party to the Convention, to the extent that that organization has competence
over matters governed by this Convention. Where the number of Parties to the
Convention is relevant in this Convention, the regional economic integration
organization shall not count as a Party to the Convention in addition to its member
States that are Parties to the Convention.

 2. The regional economic integration organization shall, at the time of signature,
ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, make a declaration to the
depositary specifying the matters governed by this Convention in respect of
which competence has been transferred to that organization by its member States.
The regional economic integration organization shall promptly notify the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Singapore Convention on

15  Mediation Act 2020                                       2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

depositary of any changes to the distribution of competence, including new
transfers of competence, specified in the declaration under this paragraph.

 3. Any reference to a “Party to the Convention”, “Parties to the Convention”, a
“State” or “States” in this Convention applies equally to a regional economic
integration organization where the context so requires.

 4. This Convention shall not prevail over conflicting rules of a regional
economic integration organization, whether such rules were adopted or entered
into force before or after this Convention: (a) if, under article 4, relief is sought in
a State that is member of such an organization and all the States relevant under
article 1, paragraph 1, are members of such an organization; or (b) as concerns the
recognition or enforcement of judgments between member States of such an
organization.

Article 13. Non-unified legal systems

 1. If a Party to the Convention has two or more territorial units in which different
systems of law are applicable in relation to the matters dealt with in this
Convention, it may, at the time of signature, ratification, acceptance, approval or
accession, declare that this Convention is to extend to all its territorial units or only
to one or more of them, and may amend its declaration by submitting another
declaration at any time.

 2. These declarations are to be notified to the depositary and are to state
expressly the territorial units to which the Convention extends.

 3. If a Party to the Convention has two or more territorial units in which different
systems of law are applicable in relation to the matters dealt with in this
Convention:

        (a) Any reference to the law or rule of procedure of a State shall be
             construed as referring, where appropriate, to the law or rule of
             procedure in force in the relevant territorial unit;

        (b) Any reference to the place of business in a State shall be construed as
             referring, where appropriate, to the place of business in the relevant
             territorial unit;

        (c) Any reference to the competent authority of the State shall be
             construed as referring, where appropriate, to the competent authority
             in the relevant territorial unit.

 4. If a Party to the Convention makes no declaration under paragraph 1 of this
article, the Convention is to extend to all territorial units of that State.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Singapore Convention on

2020 Ed.                      Mediation Act 2020                   16

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

Article 14. Entry into force

 1. This Convention shall enter into force six months after deposit of the third
instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.

 2. When a State ratifies, accepts, approves or accedes to this Convention after
the deposit of the third instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or
accession, this Convention shall enter into force in respect of that State six months
after the date of the deposit of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval
or accession. The Convention shall enter into force for a territorial unit to which
this Convention has been extended in accordance with article 13 six months after
the notification of the declaration referred to in that article.

Article 15. Amendment

 1. Any Party to the Convention may propose an amendment to the present
Convention by submitting it to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. The
Secretary-General shall thereupon communicate the proposed amendment to the
Parties to the Convention with a request that they indicate whether they favour a
conference of Parties to the Convention for the purpose of considering and voting
upon the proposal. In the event that within four months from the date of such
communication at least one third of the Parties to the Convention favour such a
conference, the Secretary-General shall convene the conference under the
auspices of the United Nations.

 2. The conference of Parties to the Convention shall make every effort to
achieve consensus on each amendment. If all efforts at consensus are exhausted
and no consensus is reached, the amendment shall, as a last resort, require for its
adoption a two-thirds majority vote of the Parties to the Convention present and
voting at the conference.

 3. An adopted amendment shall be submitted by the depositary to all the Parties
to the Convention for ratification, acceptance or approval.

 4. An adopted amendment shall enter into force six months after the date of
deposit of the third instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval. When an
amendment enters into force, it shall be binding on those Parties to the Convention
that have expressed consent to be bound by it.

 5. When a Party to the Convention ratifies, accepts or approves an amendment
following the deposit of the third instrument of ratification, acceptance or
approval, the amendment shall enter into force in respect of that Party to the
Convention six months after the date of the deposit of its instrument of ratification,
acceptance or approval.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Singapore Convention on

17                         Mediation Act 2020                2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

Article 16. Denunciations

 1. A Party to the Convention may denounce this Convention by a formal
notification in writing addressed to the depositary. The denunciation may be
limited to certain territorial units of a non-unified legal system to which this
Convention applies.

 2. The denunciation shall take effect 12 months after the notification is received
by the depositary. Where a longer period for the denunciation to take effect is
specified in the notification, the denunciation shall take effect upon the expiration
of such longer period after the notification is received by the depositary. The
Convention shall continue to apply to settlement agreements concluded before the
denunciation takes effect.

   DONE in a single original, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French,
Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                   LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

               SINGAPORE CONVENTION ON
                     MEDIATION ACT 2020

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 4 of 2020 — Singapore Convention on Mediation Act 2020

Bill            : 5/2020

First Reading   : 6 January 2020

Second Reading  : 3 February 2020

Third Reading   : 4 February 2020

Commencement    : 12 September 2020

2. 2020 Revised Edition — Singapore Convention on
                                    Mediation Act 2020

Operation       : 31 December 2021

3. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
   (Amendments made by Part 7 of the above Act)

Bill            : 18/2021

First Reading   : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement    : 1 April 2022

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                             ii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
     COMPARATIVE TABLE

SINGAPORE CONVENTION ON
      MEDIATION ACT 2020

 The Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding
provisions in the last Revised Edition.

2020 Ed.                            Act 4 of 2020

[Omitted as having had effect]  12

[Omitted as having had effect]  13

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
