  Residential Tenancies Amendment (Rent Cap) Bill
                                 2026

                  Explanatory Memorandum

Overview of Bill

The Bill amends the Residential Tenancies Act 1987 to:

     · limit increases in rent during a residential tenancy by reference to a prescribed
        formula based on movements in the Consumer Price Index (CPI);

     · provide for applications to a competent court to approve increases in rent
        above the prescribed limit;

     · restrict the circumstances in which a lessor may terminate a residential
        tenancy agreement by removing the ability to terminate without specified
        grounds;

     · make provision for termination of social housing tenancy agreements by
        lessors on specified grounds; and

     · provide for transitional matters.
These measures will introduce a flexible, indexed framework to moderate rent
increases and enhance security of tenure for tenants in Western Australia.

Notes on Clauses

Clause 1. Short title

This clause provides that the Act may be cited as the Residential Tenancies
Amendment (Rent Cap) Act 2026.
Clause 2. Commencement

This clause provides for the commencement of the amended Act. Sections 1 and 2
commence on Royal Assent. The remainder of the Act commences on 1 July 2026 if
Royal Assent is given before that date, or otherwise on the day after Royal Assent.
Clause 3. Act amended

This clause provides that the Bill amends the Residential Tenancies Act 1987.

                                                      1
Clause 4. Sections 31AA and 31AB inserted
Introduces provisions to limit rent increases and allow court-approved increases
above the prescribed limit.

New Section 31AA -- Limit on increase in rent

New section 31AA limits the amount by which rent may be increased under a
residential tenancy agreement.
The section defines an "increase limit" calculated by reference to:

     · the current rent payable; and
     · the change in the CPI (rents subgroup for Perth) between the relevant dates,

        multiplied by a factor of 1.1.

This corresponds with the system currently in place in the ACT.

A lessor must not increase rent above the increase limit unless:

     · the agreement specifies the amount or method of increase; or
     · the tenant agrees in writing; or
     · a competent court approves the increase.

The section also requires that a notice of rent increase state:

     · the amount of the proposed increase; and
     · whether the increase exceeds the increase limit; and
     · if so, that the increase requires agreement or court approval.

New Section 31AB -- Lessor's application to increase rent above increase limit

New section 31AB allows a lessor to apply to a competent court for approval to
increase rent above the increase limit.
The court must have regard to specified matters, including:

     · rents for comparable premises;
     · the capital value of the premises;
     · outgoings payable by the lessor;
     · services and chattels provided; and
     · the condition of the premises.

The court may make an order specifying the maximum rent payable for a period of up
to 1 year.
A penalty applies if rent is demanded or received in excess of the amount ordered.

                                                      2
Clause 5. Section 60 amended

Amends section 60 so that a residential tenancy agreement can be terminated by a
competent court under the conditions laid out in the new section 71BA (see clause
8).

This clause also amends section 60 by removing the phrase "lessor or" so that it does
not clash with the amended section 70A (see clause 7) which governs termination at
the end of a fixed term.

Clause 6. Section 64 amended

Restricts termination of periodic tenancies by lessors to specified grounds and
requires supporting evidence. This clause replaces section 64(1) and (2) and amends
section 64(5).

Amended section 64 provides that a lessor may give notice of termination of a
periodic tenancy only on specified grounds, being where the lessor genuinely intends
to:

     · occupy the premises;
     · have an immediate relative or other person with a close personal relationship

        occupy the premises;
     · sell the premises;
     · carry out major works that cannot reasonably be carried out while the tenant

        remains in occupation; or
     · use the premises for another lawful purpose.

The clause requires that a notice of termination be accompanied by written evidence
supporting the ground relied on.

The clause also specifies minimum notice periods.

Section 64(5) is modified so that section 64 does not apply to social housing tenancy
agreements.

Clause 7. Section 70A amended

The amendments provide that a residential tenancy agreement (other than a social
housing tenancy agreement) does not end at the end of a fixed term unless the tenant
gives notice of termination.

The clause removes provisions that previously allowed a lessor to terminate at the
end of a fixed term.

                                                      3
Clause 8. Part V Division 3 Subdivision 1A inserted

This clause inserts new Subdivision 1A (section 71BA) dealing with termination of
social housing tenancy agreements by lessors.

New Section 71BA -- Termination of social housing tenancy agreement by lessor
New section 71BA provides that a lessor may terminate a social housing tenancy
agreement only on specified grounds, being where the lessor genuinely intends to:

     · sell the premises;
     · carry out major works; or
     · use the premises for another lawful purpose.

The section requires a minimum notice period of 90 days.
The tenant may apply to a competent court for an extension of the notice period or for
other orders.
Clause 9. Section 72 amended

This clause amends section 72(1) by deleting "a lessor or" so that it does not clash
with the amended section 70A (see clause 7) which governs termination at the end of
a fixed term.

Clause 10. Part 7 Division 4 inserted

This clause inserts new Division 4 into Part 7, containing transitional provisions.

Section 104 -- Terms used
Defines terms used in the Division, including "commencement day".

Section 105 -- Application of section 31AA to existing agreements
Provides that section 31AA does not apply to a rent increase if notice of the increase
was given before the commencement day.

Section 106 -- Notices under previous section 64
Provides that certain notices of termination given by a lessor under the previous
section 64 cease to have effect on commencement day.
If proceedings relating to such a notice are pending, they are taken to be dismissed.

Section 107 -- Notices under previous section 70A
Provides that certain notices given by a lessor under the previous section 70A cease
to have effect on commencement day.

                                                      4
If proceedings relating to such a notice are pending, they are taken to be dismissed.
                                                      5
