THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
              PRIVATE EDUCATION ACT 2009

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                                                        2020 Ed.

Private Education Act 2009

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

                         ADMINISTRATION OF ACT

3. Agency to administer Act
4. Functions of Agency
5. Committee for Private Education
6. Financial penalties, etc., payable to Consolidated Fund

                                        PART 3

       REGULATION OF PRIVATE EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS

         Division 1 — Registration of private education institutions

 7. Requirement for registration
 8. Application for grant or renewal of registration
 9. Grant or renewal of registration
10. Grounds for refusal to grant or renew registration
11. Suspension or cancellation of registration
12. Approval of change of name
13. Power to direct change of name

                Division 2 — Management of registered private
                                education institutions

14. Duties of managers
15. Suspension or removal of managers

     Division 3 — Provisions relating to courses by registered private
                                education institutions

16. Permission to offer or provide courses

                                                      1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                                 2

Division 4 — Provisions relating to teachers of registered private
                           education institutions

Section   Notification of teachers of registered private education
   17.    institutions
          Power to prohibit or restrict deployment of teachers
   18.

          Division 5 — Provisions relating to advertising

19. Prohibition of certain advertisements
20. Remedial measures in relation to advertisements

          Division 6 — Administrative penalties

21. General measures Agency may impose on errant private
         education institutions

                                        PART 4

          PROVISION AND CONTROL OF OTHER SERVICES

22. Establishment or maintenance of accreditation or certification
         schemes by Agency

23. Restrictions on certain other services

                                        PART 5

                                       APPEALS

24. Constitution of Appeals Board
25. Duty, powers and procedures of Appeals Board
26. Appeals to Appeals Board
27. Disclosure of conflicts of interest by members of Appeals Board
28. Rules relating to appeals

                                        PART 6

             INSPECTION, ENFORCEMENT AND OFFENCES

29. Appointment of inspectors
30. Inspection of registered private education institutions
31. Enforcement powers of inspectors
32. General power to direct remedial measures
33. Power to direct course money refunds, etc.
34. General offences and penalties

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
3        Private Education Act 2009                                 2020 Ed.

         PART 7

         MISCELLANEOUS

Section  Power of Agency to issue requisition for particulars or
   35.   information
         Registers and publication of information
   36.   Power of Agency in relation to dispute resolution schemes
   37.   Jurisdiction of court
   38.   Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
   39.   Composition of offences
   40.   General exemption
   41.   Service of documents
   42.   Amendment of Schedule
   43.   Regulations
   44.   Non-application to certain education institutions
   45.   Saving and transitional provisions
   46.   The Schedule — Definition of private education

An Act to provide for the regulation and accreditation of private
  education institutions so as to ensure the provision of quality
  education thereat and for matters connected therewith.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

                                 [1 December 2009: Except Parts 3 to 7 ;
                                          21 December 2009: Parts 3 to 7 ]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Private Education Act 2009.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “advertisement” includes any notice, circular, pamphlet,
         brochure, prospectus, programme or other document, and

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               4

          any announcement, notification or intimation, to the public or
          any section thereof or to any person or persons, made —

          (a) orally or in writing;

          (b) by means of any poster, placard, notice or other
               document affixed, posted or displayed on any wall,
               billboard or hoarding or on any other object or thing;

          (c) by means of sound broadcast, television, the Internet
              or other media; or

          (d) in any other form or manner whatsoever;

“Agency” means the Skills and Workforce Development
   Agency established by section 3 of the Skills and
   Workforce Development Agency Act 2026;

                                                                       [Act 17 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

“Appeals Board” means the Appeals Board constituted under
   section 24;

“award”, in relation to a private education institution, includes
   the conferment of any degree, diploma or certificate by the
   private education institution, whether on its own behalf or
   otherwise;

“body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership;

“Chief Executive” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
   Skills and Workforce Development Agency Act 2026;

                                                                       [Act 17 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

“company” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“course”, in relation to a private education institution, means a
   course of study or training programme offered or provided by
   the private education institution;

“course money” means money that a private education
   institution receives, directly or indirectly, from —

          (a) a student, or a person (whether within or outside
               Singapore) who intends to become or who has taken

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
5               Private Education Act 2009                  2020 Ed.

   any steps towards becoming a student (called in this
   Act an intending student); or

   (b) another person who pays the money on behalf of the
        student or intending student,

   for a course that the private education institution is providing
   or offering to provide to the student or intending student;

   “director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
      Companies Act 1967;

   “education” includes instruction, training or teaching;

   “education institution” means any person that offers to provide,
      or provides, education, whether by itself or in association or
      collaboration with or by affiliation with any other person;

   “examination service”, in relation to any private education
      institution, means any test, examination or other method of
      assessing the level of proficiency, aptitude, skill, knowledge
      or understanding of a person attending or enrolled in any
      course provided by the private education institution;

   “inspector” means an inspector appointed by the Agency under
      section 29(1);

   “limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by
      section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

   “manager” —

   (a) in relation to a private education institution that is a
        body corporate, means any director, partner or
        member of its board or committee of management
        which is responsible for the management of the
        affairs of the body corporate, or other similar officer
        of the body corporate, and includes any person in
        accordance with whose directions, instructions or
        wishes those directors, partners or other members (as
        the case may be) are accustomed or under an
        obligation, whether formal or informal, to act;

   (b) in relation to a private education institution that is an
        unincorporated association (other than a partnership),

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               6

          means any member of the governing body of the
          unincorporated association which is responsible for
          the management of the affairs of the unincorporated
          association, or any person holding a position
          analogous to that of member of such a governing
          body;

          (c) in relation to a private education institution that is a
              partnership, means any partner of the partnership; or

          (d) in relation to a private education institution that is a
               sole‑proprietorship, means the sole‑proprietor;

“partner” includes any person purporting to act as a partner;

“partnership” includes a limited partnership within the meaning
   of the Limited Partnerships Act 2008;

“premises”, in relation to a private education institution
   (whether registered or unregistered) or a proposed private
   education institution, means any building, enclosure, ground,
   open‑air space or other place used or to be used by the private
   education institution or proposed private education
   institution in connection with the provision of private
   education;

“prescribed dispute resolution scheme” means a dispute
   resolution scheme that is prescribed under section 37;

“private education” has the meaning given to it in the Schedule;

“private education institution” means —

          (a) any person that offers to provide or provides private
               education whether in Singapore or elsewhere,
               whether or not the person offers to provide or
               provides the private education —

          (i) for profit;

          (ii) together with other education; or

          (iii) by itself or in association or collaboration with
                or by affiliation with any other person; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
7  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

   (b) any school registered under the Education Act 1957
        which receives a grant‑in‑aid or subvention extended
        by the Government to aided schools as is specified by
        the Minister in a notification published in the
        Gazette,

   but does not include any private education institution that the
   Minister declares, by notification in the Gazette, to be
   excluded from this definition, after having regard to the
   association, collaboration with or affiliation of the private
   education institution with any school registered under the
   Education Act 1957;

   “private education institution for adult learners” means a private
      education institution —

   (a) in which more than half of the students enrolled are
        25 years of age or above, such enrolment to be
        determined at the frequency and in the manner
        prescribed; and

           (b) that does not offer or provide any education that is
                normally for a person who is below 16 years of age;

                                                                          [Act 17 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

   “registered private education institution” means any private
      education institution that is registered under Part 3;

   “registered society” means a society registered or deemed to be
      registered under the Societies Act 1966;

   “renovation works” means any structural or non-structural
      additions and alterations carried out to any premises, but
      does not include repairs and maintenance works;

   “Scheme” means a voluntary accreditation or certification
      scheme established or maintained under section 22(1);

   “student”, in relation to an education institution, means a person
      who receives, or is enrolled in the education institution to
      receive, education offered or provided by the education
      institution;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               8

“teacher” means a person who teaches students of an education
   institution, or who prepares or issues lessons or corrects
   written answers;

“unregistered private education institution” means any private
   education institution that is not, or that ceases to be, a
   registered private education institution, but does not include
   an education institution which is exempted under section 41
   from registration under Part 3.

                                                                   [24/2016]

                                    PART 2

                      ADMINISTRATION OF ACT

Agency to administer Act

 3. The Agency is responsible for the administration and
enforcement of this Act.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

Functions of Agency

 4.—(1) Without affecting section 5 of the Skills and Workforce
Development Agency Act 2026, it is the function of the Agency
under this Act —

       (a) to register persons who provide or offer to provide private
            education in Singapore or elsewhere, and to assess and
            reassess them from time to time;

       (b) to otherwise regulate persons who offer or provide any
            service relating, directly or indirectly, to private education;

       (c) to promote and facilitate the development of the private
            education sector in Singapore;

       (d) to establish or support accreditation or certification
            schemes and other measures to enhance the standards of
            the private education industry or the education industry in
            Singapore generally;

       (e) to facilitate the improvement of private education in
            Singapore of these courses; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
9  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

   (f) to facilitate public availability of meaningful and accurate
       information relating to —

   (i) registered private education institutions and persons
       regulated under this Act, including their compliance
       with the requirements of this Act;

   (ii) access of students or prospective students to dispute
        resolution processes; and

             (iii) the private education industry in Singapore.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) In discharging its functions under this Act, the Agency is to
have regard —

   (a) to the financial capability, and the adequacy and quality of
        the staffing and resources, of any registered private
        education institution to achieve the stated outcomes for
        the students who take the courses at the institution;

   (b) to ensuring that minimum standards are maintained by
        providers of private education that the Agency has
        registered;

   (c) to securing the availability of meaningful and accurate
       information to the public about —

   (i) courses offered by registered private education
       institutions and the conditions attaching to
       enrolment in the courses, to enable prospective
       students to make informed decisions about
       enrolling in the courses; and

         (ii) registered private education institutions and their
               compliance with the requirements of this Act;

                                                                       [Act 17 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

   (d) to ensuring access of students to timely and appropriate
        dispute resolution processes, in particular overseas
        students, having regard especially to their status as
        persons only temporarily in Singapore; and

                                                                                                    [24/2016]

                                                                       [Act 17 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               10

          (e) to any direction given by the Minister as to the
              performance by the Agency of its functions under this
              Act and, in any matter relating to private education
              institutions for adult learners, to any direction given by
              the Minister charged with the responsibility for that matter.

                                                                              [Act 17 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

                                                                              [Act 17 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

Committee for Private Education

 5. Without affecting section 28 of the Skills and Workforce
Development Agency Act 2026, the Agency may appoint a
committee, to be known as the Committee for Private Education,
to which the Agency may delegate the exercise of any of its powers
under this Act.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

Financial penalties, etc., payable to Consolidated Fund

 6.—(1) All financial penalties imposed under section 21 or 37, and
all composition sums collected under section 40, must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) All fees and other moneys collected under this Act must be paid
to the Agency.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

                                    PART 3
   REGULATION OF PRIVATE EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS

     Division 1 — Registration of private education institutions
Requirement for registration

 7.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person in Singapore
must not —

       (a) offer to provide or provide private education, whether in
            Singapore or elsewhere; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
11  Private Education Act 2009                                    2020 Ed.

    (b) award any degree, diploma or certificate (including any
         honorary degree or other distinctions) in respect of private
         education, whether offered or provided in Singapore or
         elsewhere,

unless the person is a registered private education institution.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

 (3) Any person who knowingly assists in the provision of private
education by an unregistered private education institution shall be
guilty of an offence.

 (4) The Agency may take any measures that it thinks necessary to
secure the closure of any unregistered private education institution,
including but not limited to —

    (a) the use of such force or assistance as may be necessary to
         remove therefrom any person who is in the premises in the
         possession or control of the unregistered private education
         institution; and

       (b) the sealing of all or any of the entrances to or exits from
            such premises.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (5) The expenses reasonably incurred by the Agency in the exercise
of its powers under subsection (4) and any other reasonable expenses
that may be incidental to the exercise of its powers are recoverable by
the Agency as a civil debt from the manager or managers (as the case
may be) of the unregistered private education institution; and every
manager of such an unregistered private education institution is to be
jointly and severally liable to the Agency for those expenses.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (6) Without affecting subsection (4) or (5) or any other power
vested in the Agency under this Act, the Agency may, by written
direction addressed to the managers of an unregistered private
education institution, direct that the unregistered private education
institution refund each student thereof, within the time that may be
specified in the direction, the whole of the course money the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               12

unregistered private education institution received in respect of the
student.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (7) Subsection (6) applies despite anything contained in the
agreement or contract between the unregistered private education
institution and the students concerned.

 (8) Where any written direction issued by the Agency under
subsection (6) is not complied with, the unregistered private
education institution and every manager thereof to whom the
direction is addressed shall each be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (9) Subject to subsection (7), it is a defence for any person charged
with an offence under subsection (8) to prove that the person had a
reasonable excuse for failing to comply with the written direction of
the Agency under subsection (6).

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (10) Subject to the provisions of this Act, no person is entitled to
recover in any court any charge, course money or remuneration for
any private education provided in Singapore unless the person
providing the private education is registered under this Act to provide
the private education and the person did so in accordance with the
permission of the Agency under section 16 required for the course.

                                                                               [34

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

Application for grant or renewal of registration

 8.—(1) Every application for the grant or renewal of the
registration of a private education institution —

       (a) must be made by a manager of the private education
            institution (called in this section the applicant) to the
            Agency in such form and manner, and within such time, as
            may be prescribed;

       (b) must be accompanied by the prescribed fee; and

       (c) may be accompanied by an application to the Agency for
            the waiver of any of the requirements imposed under this

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
13  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

            Act for the registration of private education institutions or
            the renewal thereof.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) The Agency may require the applicant making an application
under subsection (1) to furnish it with such information or documents
as the Agency considers necessary in relation to the application.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (3) Where the applicant fails to furnish the Agency with any
information or document required under subsection (2) in relation to
his or her application within the time specified by the Agency —

    (a) the application is deemed to have been withdrawn; and

    (b) where the application is accompanied by an application for
         the waiver of any of the requirements imposed under this
         Act for the registration of private education institutions or
         the renewal thereof, the application for waiver is also
         deemed to have been withdrawn.
                                                                           [35

                                                                                                     [24/2016]

Grant or renewal of registration

 9.—(1) The Agency may, upon receiving an application made
under section 8(1) for the grant or renewal of the registration of a
private education institution, and after any inquiry that it may think
necessary —

       (a) if the application is accompanied by an application for the
            waiver of any of the requirements imposed under this Act
            for the registration or renewal of registration of private
            education institutions —

               (i) grant or renew (as the case may be) the registration of
                   the private education institution subject to such terms
                   and conditions as it thinks fit, after waiving all or any
                   of the requirements imposed under this Act for the
                   registration or renewal of registration of private
                   education institutions that is the subject of the
                   application for waiver; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               14

          (ii) refuse to waive all or any of the requirements
               imposed under this Act for the registration or
               renewal of registration of private education
               institutions that is the subject of the application for
               waiver and refuse to grant or renew (as the case may
               be) the registration of the private education
               institution because of section 10; or

(b) in any other case —

          (i) grant or renew (as the case may be) the registration of
              the private education institution subject to such terms
              and conditions as it thinks fit; or

              (ii) refuse to grant or renew (as the case may be) the
                   registration of the private education institution
                   because of section 10.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) Every registration of a private education institution, and every
renewal thereof, is for the period that may be specified by the Agency.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (3) Without limiting subsection (1)(a)(i) and (b)(i), the terms and
conditions subject to which the Agency registers a private education
institution may provide that except with the prior written approval of
the Agency —

(a) the private education institution must not enter into a
     contractual agreement or other arrangement (whether or
     not in partnership) with one or more other parties to
     undertake any activity that is not related to private
     education, so as to obtain individual benefits for the
     parties, whether in the form of a share of the output of the
     arrangement or joint or collective profits for all the parties;
     or

(b) the private education institution must only provide private
     education and other activities that are related to the
     provision of private education.

                                                                                                 [24/2016]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
15  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

 (4) The Agency may at any time add to, vary or revoke any term or
condition of the registration of a private education institution without
compensation.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (3) does not authorise the imposition
of any term or condition restricting or prohibiting any particular
member of a registered society from entering into any contractual
agreement or other arrangement referred to in subsection (3)(a) or
from carrying on any activity that is not related to the provision of
private education.

                                                                               [36

Grounds for refusal to grant or renew registration

 10.—(1) The Agency may refuse to grant or renew the registration
of a private education institution if —

       (a) the private education institution is not a company or a
            registered society;

       (b) the premises of the private education institution —

               (i) are or are likely to be unsuitable for providing private
                   education;

              (ii) are unsanitary or unsuitable for providing private
                   education, or are otherwise dangerous or unsafe;

             (iii) are to be used, wholly or in part, for any purpose
                   other than providing private education or education;
                   or

             (iv) do not conform to the regulations made under
                   section 44;

       (c) all or more than half of the total number of teachers of the
            private education institution, or all or more than half of the
            total number of the proposed teachers thereof —

               (i) do not possess the minimum qualifications or
                   experience, or fulfil such other criteria, as may be
                   prescribed under section 17(1)(a); or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               16

          (ii) are otherwise not fit and proper persons to teach in
               the private education institution;

(d) in the application for the grant or renewal of the
     registration (as the case may be) of the private education
     institution, a statement has been made or information has
     been furnished which is false or misleading in a material
     particular or by reason of the omission of a material
     particular;

          (e) the private education institution or any manager thereof —

          (i) is contravening or has contravened this Act;

          (ii) has been convicted of any offence under this Act
               within 5 years preceding the date of the application
               for the grant or renewal of the registration (as the
               case may be) of the private education institution; or

          (iii) has been convicted of any other offence involving
                fraud or dishonesty or the conviction for which
                involved a finding that the private education
                institution or a manager thereof (as the case may
                be) has acted fraudulently or dishonestly, whether in
                Singapore or elsewhere, within 5 years preceding the
                date of the application for the grant or renewal of the
                registration (as the case may be) of the private
                education institution;

          (f) any manager or proposed manager of the private education
              institution is otherwise not a fit and proper person to carry
              on or manage the private education institution;

(g) the Agency is of the view that the registration or renewal of
     registration (as the case may be) of the private education
     institution is not in the interests of the public, or the
     students, intending students or prospective students of the
     private education institution; or

(h) the Agency is satisfied that the name of the private
     education institution, or the name of any premises or
     school of the private education institution (or any
     department or faculty thereof), or the name of any

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
17  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

    education offered to be provided or provided by the private
    education institution —

    (i) is likely to mislead members of the public as to the
        true character or purpose of the private education
        institution, premises, school or department or faculty
        thereof or education, as the case may be;

    (ii) is identical to or so nearly resembles the name of
         some other private education institution or other
         education institution, whether in Singapore or
         elsewhere, as is likely to deceive or confuse
         members of the public or students of either
         education institution;

    (iii) is undesirable or offensive; or

             (iv) is a name of a kind that the Minister has directed the
                   Agency, by notification in the Gazette, not to accept
                   for registration or is proscribed.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) The Agency must, before refusing to grant or renew the
registration of any private education institution under subsection (1),
give the private education institution and the managers thereof
written notice of its intention to do so.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (3) Upon receipt of the notice of the Agency under subsection (2),
the private education institution concerned or any manager thereof
may, within 14 days after the date of the notice, show cause to the
Agency as to why the registration of the private education institution
should be granted or renewed.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (4) Where, after the private education institution or any manager
thereof has shown cause under subsection (3) or the time to do so has
expired, the Agency decides not to grant or renew the registration of
the private education institution —

    (a) the Agency must notify the private education institution
         and the managers thereof of its decision in writing; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               18

(b) in the case where the registration of the private education
     institution is not renewed, the registration lapses
     accordingly.
                                                                       [37

                                                                                                 [24/2016]

Suspension or cancellation of registration

 11.—(1) The Agency may, without compensation, suspend (for a
period not exceeding 6 months) or cancel the registration of any
private education institution, or reduce the period of registration of
the private education institution, if —

       (a) the private education institution ceases to be a company or
            a registered society;

       (b) the premises of the private education institution —

               (i) are unsuitable for providing private education;

              (ii) are unsanitary or unsuitable for providing private
                   education, or are otherwise dangerous or unsafe;

             (iii) are used, wholly or in part, for any purpose other than
                   providing private education or education; or

             (iv) do not conform to the regulations made under
                   section 44;

       (c) all or more than half of the total number of teachers of the
            private education institution —

               (i) do not possess the minimum qualifications or
                   experience, or fulfil any other criteria, that may be
                   prescribed under section 17(1)(a); or

              (ii) are otherwise not fit and proper persons to teach in
                   the private education institution;

       (d) the Agency becomes aware of a circumstance that would
            have permitted the Agency to refuse to grant or renew the
            registration of the private education institution because of
            section 10, had the Agency been aware of the
            circumstances immediately before granting or renewing
            the registration, as the case may be;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
19  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

    (e) there is reasonable cause to believe that the grant or
        renewal of registration has been obtained by means of any
        false statement or any statement that is false in a material
        particular;

    (f) the private education institution or any manager thereof —

    (i) is contravening or has contravened this Act;

    (ii) has, at any time during the period of registration of
         the private education institution, been convicted of
         any offence under this Act; or

    (iii) has, at any time during the period of registration of
          the private education institution, been convicted of
          any other offence involving fraud or dishonesty or
          the conviction for which involved a finding that the
          private education institution or a manager thereof (as
          the case may be) has acted fraudulently or
          dishonestly, whether in Singapore or elsewhere;

    (g) any manager of the private education institution is not a fit
         and proper person to carry on or manage the private
         education institution;

    (h) the Agency is of the view that the continued registration of
         the private education institution is not in the interests of the
         public, or the students, intending students or prospective
         students of the private education institution;

    (i) the private education institution fails to comply with a
        direction of the Agency issued under section 13;

    (j) the Agency is satisfied that the private education institution
        has ceased to provide private education;

    (k) the private education institution is wound up or otherwise
        dissolved;

    (l) any term or condition of registration of the private
        education institution has been breached; or

    (m) it appears to the Agency that the private education
         institution is being administered in a manner that is —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               20

          (i) contrary to the interests of the public; or

              (ii) detrimental or likely to be detrimental to its students,
                   intending students or prospective students.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) The Agency must, before suspending or cancelling the
registration of any private education institution or reducing the
period of registration of the private education institution under
subsection (1), give the private education institution written notice of
its intention to do so.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (3) Upon receipt of the notice of the Agency under subsection (2),
the private education institution concerned or any manager thereof
may, within 14 days after the date of the notice, show cause to the
Agency as to why the registration of the private education institution
should not be suspended or cancelled, or the period of its registration
should not be reduced, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (4) The Agency must, after the private education institution or any
manager thereof has shown cause under subsection (3) or the time to
do so has expired, notify the private education institution of its
decision in writing.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (5) Subject to section 26, any decision by the Agency under
subsection (1) to suspend or cancel the registration of a private
education institution, or to reduce the period of such registration,
must not take effect until the expiry of 14 days after the Agency has
served the notice of the decision on the private education institution
concerned.

                                                                               [38

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

Approval of change of name

 12.—(1) Every registered private education institution must obtain
the prior approval of the Agency before changing its name, or the
name of any premises or school (or any department or faculty thereof)
of, or any education provided by, the private education institution to a
new name.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
21  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a manager of the registered
private education institution which intends to effect a change of name
under subsection (1) must submit to the Agency an application for
approval of the new name in the form and manner that may be
prescribed, and that application must be accompanied by the
prescribed fee.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (3) The Agency may refuse to grant its approval under
subsection (1) if it is satisfied that the new name of the private
education institution, or the premises, school (or any department or
faculty thereof) or education provided by the private education
institution (as the case may be) is a name which is referred to in
section 10(1)(h).

                                                                               [39

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

Power to direct change of name

 13.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, the Agency may direct a
registered private education institution to change its name, or the
name of any premises or school (or any department or faculty thereof)
of or education provided by the private education institution, to any
new name that the Agency may approve under section 12 where the
Agency is satisfied that the private education institution has been
registered (whether through inadvertence or otherwise and whether
before, on or after 21 December 2009) by a name, or the name of the
premises or school (or a department or faculty thereof) or education
bears a name —

       (a) which is referred to in section 10(1)(h); or

       (b) the use of which has been restrained by an injunction
            granted under the Trade Marks Act 1998.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) The registered private education institution to whom a direction
under subsection (1) is given must comply with the direction within
6 weeks after the date of the direction, or any longer period that the
Agency may allow in any particular case, unless the direction is
earlier annulled by the Minister.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               22

 (3) Any registered private education institution which contravenes
subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence.

 (4) To avoid doubt, the Agency must accept as correct any decision
of the General Division of the High Court to grant an injunction
referred to in subsection (1)(b).

                                                                               [40

                                                                                                [24/2016; 40/2019]

            Division 2 — Management of registered private
                            education institutions

Duties of managers

 14.—(1) The duties of a manager of a registered private education
institution are to carry on or manage the registered private education
institution and, in particular —

       (a) to ensure the keeping of proper records, including records
            containing information on —

               (i) the administration of the courses offered or provided
                   by the private education institution;

              (ii) the teachers deployed by the private education
                   institution;

             (iii) the attendance of the students of the private
                   education institution; and

             (iv) any particulars that may be prescribed about the
                   private education institution’s administration and
                   governance arrangements, financial viability,
                   educational programmes and student welfare
                   processes, resources and other matters;

       (b) to ensure that, in the event the provision of private
            education by the private education institution is about to
            cease, the Agency and each student and intending student
            of the private education institution are informed, in writing
            and in the time delimited as follows, of the cessation and of
            the necessary arrangements made by the private education
            institution for the student or intending student to be offered
            a place in another registered private education institution to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
23  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

    complete the same or similar course at the private
    education institution’s expense or otherwise:

    (i) where the provision of private education by the
        private education institution must cease because the
        Agency refused to renew the registration of the
        private education institution under section 10 or the
        registration of the private education institution is
        suspended or cancelled, or the period of its
        registration is reduced, under section 11 — at least
        14 days before the cessation or any other period that
        the Agency may allow in any particular case; or

    (ii) where the provision of private education by the
         private education institution must cease for any other
         reason — at least 30 days before the cessation;

    (c) to obtain the permission of the Agency, in the form and
        manner that the Agency may require, before any
        renovation works are carried out to the premises of the
        private education institution or any part thereof or before
        relocating of the premises of the private education
        institution;

    (d) to notify the Agency, in writing —

    (i) if there is any change in the ownership, control or
        management of the private education institution, of
        that change within 14 days after the date of the
        change;

    (ii) if any manager of the private education institution
         has been convicted of any offence punishable with
         imprisonment, of that conviction within 14 days after
         the date of conviction; or

    (iii) if any legal proceedings have been instituted against
          the private education institution, of the legal
          proceedings within 14 days after the date the
          private education institution is served with the
          originating process in such proceedings;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               24

          (e) to furnish such information or documents relating to the
              private education institution as may be required by the
              Agency within the time and in the manner that the Agency
              may specify; and

        (f) to discharge any other duties that may be prescribed or as
            the Agency may, from time to time, by written notice
            impose in any particular case.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), every manager of a
registered private education institution must —

(a) maintain —

          (i) a telephone number;

          (ii) a residential address; and

          (iii) an electronic mail address or a fax number,

(a) at which the manager may be contacted by the Agency in
     relation to any matter concerning the registered private
     education institution;

(b) upon the registration of the private education institution or
     his or her becoming a manager of the registered private
     education institution, notify the Agency of the contact
     information the manager is required to maintain under
     paragraph (a); and

       (c) notify the Agency of any change in the contact information
            the manager is required to maintain under paragraph (a)
            within 14 days after the date of the change.

                                                                                                [24/2016; 34/2016]

 (3) Any manager who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with any of the duties of a manager prescribed under subsection (1) or
(2) shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [41

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
25  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

Suspension or removal of managers

 15.—(1) Without limiting any other power vested in the Agency
under this Act, the Agency may, at any time, direct a registered
private education institution —

    (a) to suspend or remove any person appointed as a manager
         of the registered private education institution if the Agency
         is satisfied that the manager —

    (i) is not a fit and proper person to carry on or manage
        the registered private education institution; or

    (ii) is unable to discharge the duties prescribed under
         section 14 or imposed on managers under this Act; or

       (b) to appoint any additional person that the Agency may
            approve to discharge the duties of the manager mentioned
            in paragraph (a) for any period that the Agency considers
            necessary.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) Any registered private education institution which contravenes
any direction of the Agency issued under subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [42

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 Division 3 — Provisions relating to courses by registered private
                            education institutions

Permission to offer or provide courses

 16.—(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), no registered private
education institution may offer or provide a course, whether in
Singapore or elsewhere and whether by itself or in association or
collaboration with or by affiliation with any other person, except with
the permission in writing of the Agency and in accordance with the
terms and conditions of the permission.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to the courses that may be
prescribed.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               26

 (3) No registered private education institution may offer or provide,
whether in Singapore or elsewhere, a course leading to the award of
any associate, undergraduate or graduate degree or any other degree
that is conferred in its own name without the permission in writing of
the Minister.

 (4) An application for the permission of the Agency under
subsection (1) must —

(a) be made on behalf of the registered private education
     institution by a manager of the registered private education
     institution (called in this section the applicant) to the
     Agency in the form and manner, and within the time, that
     may be prescribed; and

(b) be accompanied by the prescribed fee.

                                                                   [24/2016]

 (5) The Agency may, upon an application made under
subsection (4) and after any inquiry that it may think necessary,
grant its permission subject to such terms and conditions as it thinks
fit or refuse to grant its permission.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (6) The Agency may, in determining whether to grant its permission
under subsection (1), have regard to any considerations that it thinks
fit.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (7) The Agency may require the applicant making an application
under subsection (4) to furnish it with such information or documents
as the Agency considers necessary in relation to the application.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (8) Where the applicant fails to furnish the Agency with any
information or document required under subsection (7) in relation to
his or her application within the time specified by the Agency, the
application is deemed to have been withdrawn.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (9) Without limiting subsection (5) and despite section 22, the
terms and conditions subject to which the Agency grants its
permission to a registered private education institution may include
a term or condition requiring the registered private education

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
27  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

institution to be or to remain (as the case may be) a member of a
Scheme.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (10) The Agency may at any time, without compensation —

    (a) add to, vary or revoke any term or condition of its
         permission granted under subsection (5); or

       (b) suspend or revoke its permission granted under
            subsection (5).

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (11) Any registered private education institution which contravenes
subsection (1) or (3) shall be guilty of an offence.

(12) Any person who knowingly or recklessly —

    (a) issues or publishes any advertisement of any course to be
         offered or provided by a registered private education
         institution, being a course which the Agency has not
         granted its permission under subsection (1); or

    (b) solicits or receives any money from any student in respect
         of such a course,

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                 [43

                                                             [24/2016]

 Division 4 — Provisions relating to teachers of registered private
                            education institutions

Notification of teachers of registered private education
institutions

 17.—(1) No registered private education institution may deploy a
person to teach any course to all or any of the students of the
registered private education institution unless —

       (a) the person possesses the minimum qualifications and
            experience, and fulfils any other criteria, that may be
            prescribed;

       (b) a manager of the registered private education institution
            has notified the Agency, in the form and manner and within

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               28

          the time that may be prescribed, of the prescribed
          particulars of that person; and

      (c) the notification referred to in paragraph (b) is accompanied
           by the prescribed fee.

                                                                                                         [24/2016]

(2) The Agency may, at any time —

(a) impose such requirements or restrictions relating to any
     teacher of a registered private education institution as it
     thinks fit to impose, including but not limited to
     requirements or restrictions relating to the subjects or
     classes that the teacher may teach; and

       (b) add to, vary or revoke any requirement or restriction
            imposed under paragraph (a).

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (3) Any registered private education institution which contravenes
any requirement or restriction imposed under subsection (2) shall be
guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [44

Power to prohibit or restrict deployment of teachers

 18.—(1) The Agency may, at any time, direct a registered private
education institution to cease to deploy any person to teach any
course to all or any of the students of the registered private education
institution if the Agency is satisfied that —

       (a) any information in respect of the person furnished to the
            Agency under this Act is false or misleading in a material
            particular or by reason of the omission of a material
            particular;

       (b) the person does not possess the minimum qualifications or
            experience, or fulfil any other criteria, that may be
            prescribed under section 17(1)(a) or is otherwise not
            competent to teach the course;

       (c) the person has misconducted himself or herself in his or her
            capacity as a teacher of the registered private education
            institution;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
29  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

    (d) the person is contravening or has contravened this Act; or

       (e) the person is not a fit and proper person to teach in the
            registered private education institution.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) Any registered private education institution which contravenes
any direction of the Agency issued under subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [45

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

            Division 5 — Provisions relating to advertising

Prohibition of certain advertisements

 19.—(1) A person must not knowingly or recklessly issue or
publish, or cause to be issued or published, any advertisement relating
to a private education institution which is false or misleading in a
material particular.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1) —

       (a) “advertisement” includes an advertisement that is made
            available —

               (i) in a newspaper, magazine, journal or other periodical
                   published or circulated in Singapore or elsewhere;

              (ii) in a sound or television broadcast transmitted for
                   reception in Singapore or elsewhere; or

             (iii) by any other means of broadcasting or
                   communication for circulation or reception in
                   Singapore or elsewhere; and

       (b) an advertisement relating to a private education institution
            is presumed, unless the contrary is proved, to be false or
            misleading in a material particular if the advertisement —

               (i) falsely describes the private education institution;

              (ii) contains any false or misleading information
                   concerning the private education institution or any
                   course offered or provided by the private education
                   institution; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               30

          (iii) does not contain such information, or is not in
                accordance with such requirements, as may be
                prescribed.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

                                                                               [46

Remedial measures in relation to advertisements

 20.—(1) Without limiting section 32, where any person has issued
or published, or caused to be issued or published, any advertisement
in contravention of section 16(12) or 19, the Agency may direct the
person to do all or any of the following at the person’s cost and
expense:

       (a) take all practicable steps to withdraw the advertisement;

       (b) modify the advertisement in the manner that may be
            specified or approved by the Agency;

       (c) cease the issue or publication of any other advertisement
            which is wholly or substantially the same as the
            firstmentioned advertisement;

       (d) issue or publish, or cause to be issued or published, a
            corrective advertisement in the manner and containing the
            information that may be specified or approved by the
            Agency.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) The person to whom the Agency has issued a direction under
subsection (1) must bear all costs and expenses arising from
complying with the direction.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (3) Where the person to whom the Agency has issued a direction
under subsection (1) fails to comply with the direction, the Agency
may take any steps that it thinks reasonable and necessary to give
effect to the direction and recover all costs and expenses reasonably

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
31  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

incurred by it in so doing from that person as a civil debt due to the
Agency.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (4) Any person who contravenes any direction of the Agency issued
under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [47

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

                  Division 6 — Administrative penalties

General measures Agency may impose on errant private
education institutions

 21.—(1) Without limiting any other power vested in the Agency
under this Act, where a private education institution —

       (a) has breached any term or condition of its registration; or

       (b) has failed to comply with section 12(1) or 17(1), or any
            regulations that may be prescribed for the purpose of this
            section the breach of which is not an offence,

the Agency may, in its discretion —

       (c) impose a financial penalty of any amount, not exceeding
            $5,000, that the Agency thinks fit;

       (d) censure the private education institution; or

       (e) order that the registration of the private education
            institution be subject to such terms or conditions as may
            be imposed by the Agency, whether in addition to or in
            substitution of the existing terms and conditions of its
            registration.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) Any financial penalty payable by any private education
institution under subsection (1)(c) is recoverable as a civil debt due
to the Agency from the private education institution.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (3) The Agency must, before making any decision under
subsection (1) in relation to any private education institution, give

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               32

the private education institution written notice of its intention to do
so.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (4) Upon receipt of the notice of the Agency under subsection (3),
the private education institution concerned or any manager thereof
may, within 14 days after the date of the notice, show cause to the
Agency as to why the Agency should not impose a financial penalty,
censure or make an order under subsection (1)(e), as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (5) The Agency must, after the private education institution or any
manager thereof has shown cause under subsection (4) or the time to
do so has expired, notify the private education institution of its
decision in writing.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (6) Subject to section 26, any decision by the Agency under
subsection (1) must not take effect until the expiry of 14 days after the
Agency has served the notice of the decision on the private education
institution concerned.

                                                                               [48

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

                                    PART 4

      PROVISION AND CONTROL OF OTHER SERVICES

Establishment or maintenance of accreditation or certification
schemes by Agency

 22.—(1) The Agency may establish or maintain one or more
voluntary accreditation or certification schemes for —

       (a) registered private education institutions; and

       (b) any class of other education institutions as the Agency may
            deem appropriate.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) Any education institution which is eligible to be a member of a
Scheme may apply to the Agency to be a member of the Scheme.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
33  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

 (3) The Agency may, if it is satisfied that an education institution
meets the eligibility criteria for a Scheme that the Agency may
determine, accept the application of the education institution to
become a member of the Scheme, subject to the education institution
providing a written undertaking, in the form and manner that the
Agency may determine, that it will abide by the terms and conditions
of the Scheme as determined by the Agency.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (4) The Agency may, from time to time, vary the terms and
conditions of any Scheme by issuing a written notice to the members
of the Scheme or any relevant class thereof.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (5) The terms and conditions of a Scheme, as determined by the
Agency, may include all or any of the following:

    (a) that members of the Scheme must appoint a management
         representative to oversee the effective implementation and
         maintenance of the requirements under the Scheme;

    (b) that members of the Scheme must provide all the necessary
         information and documents, including any declaration of
         conformity or accuracy of information, that the Agency
         may require from time to time;

    (c) that members of the Scheme must facilitate and provide
        reasonable assistance to the assessors appointed by the
        Agency, including but not limited to making available
        information to the assessors and ensuring the safety of
        assessors during site visits to the premises of the members;

    (d) that members of the Scheme must pay any fees that may be
         imposed in respect of their application to be members of
         the Scheme or their continued association with the
         Scheme;

    (e) that members of the Scheme must comply with such codes
        of conduct or guidelines relating to quality or standards as
        may be stipulated by the Agency from time to time;

    (f) that members of the Scheme must enter into any student
        fee protection scheme that the Agency may designate for

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               34

          the purposes of the Scheme and abide by the terms and
          conditions of such student fee protection scheme;

(g) that members of the Scheme must ensure information
     relating to them, and any other information that may be
     stipulated by the Agency, are available in a publicly
     accessible manner;

       (h) that members of the Scheme must allow the Agency to
            publicise the list of members of the Scheme or a list of
            those that have been withdrawn, or have been suspended or
            removed, from the Scheme.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (6) The Agency may appoint any person to administer any Scheme,
or any aspect or any part of a Scheme, subject to such terms and
restrictions as may be specified by the Agency.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (7) Any information furnished by or on behalf of an education
institution or any manager thereof for the purpose of a Scheme —

(a) may be used for or in relation to investigating or
     prosecuting any person for an offence under any written
     law; or

(b) may be used or published in the form of research findings,
     comparison studies, banding of comparable education
     institutions, or in any other form or manner or for any
     purposes that the Agency may determine.
                                                                       [49

                                                                                                 [24/2016]

Restrictions on certain other services

 23.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), a person must not establish,
maintain, offer or provide any accreditation or certification scheme
relating, whether directly or indirectly, to private education
institutions or private education without the approval of the Agency.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), a person in Singapore must not offer
or provide any examination service to any private education

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
35  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

institution in Singapore or elsewhere without the approval of the
Agency.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (3) Subsection (1) or (2) does not apply to —

    (a) the Government, any statutory authority constituted by or
         under any written law for a public purpose, or any entity
         owned or controlled by the Government or such statutory
         authority; or

    (b) any other person that may be prescribed.

(4) Any approval of the Agency under subsection (1) or (2) —

    (a) may be granted subject to such terms and conditions as the
         Agency may specify; and

       (b) may be revoked at any time by the Agency by written
            notice.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [50

                                    PART 5

                                   APPEALS

Constitution of Appeals Board

 24.—(1) There must be an Appeals Board consisting of a
chairperson and 4 other members whom the Minister may appoint.

 (2) The Minister must appoint a secretary to the Appeals Board.

 (3) Every member of the Appeals Board, unless the Minister
otherwise directs, holds office for 3 years and is eligible for
re‑appointment.

 (4) The Minister may, at any time, revoke the appointment of any
member of the Appeals Board.

 (5) A member of the Appeals Board may resign his or her office by
written notice to the Minister.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               36

 (6) Members of the Appeals Board may receive such remuneration
and such travelling and subsistence allowances as the Minister may
determine.

                                                                               [51

Duty, powers and procedures of Appeals Board

 25.—(1) It is the duty of the Appeals Board to hear and decide all
appeals against the appealable decisions of the Agency within the
meaning of section 26(1).

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) In the discharge of its duty under this Act, the Appeals Board
has the following powers:

       (a) to take evidence on oath;

       (b) to summon any person to attend any hearing of the Appeals
            Board to give evidence or produce any document or other
            article in that person’s possession, except that no person is
            bound to answer any question or produce any document in
            respect of any matter which would have been protected
            from disclosure on the ground of privilege if the
            proceedings had been held in any court;

       (c) to order an inspection of the premises of any private
            education institution; and

       (d) to enter and view the premises of any private education
            institution.

 (3) The quorum of the Appeals Board is 3.

 (4) The chairperson of the Appeals Board, when present, presides at
every meeting of the Appeals Board, and in the chairperson’s
absence, the member of the Board who may be chosen by the
members present presides.

 (5) The proceedings of the Appeals Board must not be open to the
public.

 (6) No act or proceedings of the Appeals Board may be questioned
on account of any vacancy on it.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
37  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

 (7) All members of the Appeals Board are deemed to be public
servants for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

 (8) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Appeals Board may
regulate its own procedure in any manner that it thinks fit.

                                                                               [52

Appeals to Appeals Board

 26.—(1) Any person who is aggrieved by —

       (a) any decision of the Agency —

               (i) refusing to grant or renew the registration of a private
                   education institution under section 9;

              (ii) imposing any term or condition upon the registration
                   of a private education institution under section 9;

             (iii) suspending or cancelling the registration of a private
                   education institution under section 11;

             (iv) refusing to approve any change of the name of a
                   private education institution, or the name of any
                   premises or school (or any department or faculty
                   thereof) of or education provided by the private
                   education institution, under section 12;

              (v) directing the change in the name of a private
                   education institution, or the name of any premises
                   or school (or any department or faculty thereof) of or
                   education provided by the private education
                   institution, under section 13;

             (vi) directing the suspension or removal of any person
                   appointed as a manager of a registered private
                   education institution under section 15(1)(a) or the
                   appointment of any additional person to discharge
                   the duties of a manager of a private education
                   institution under section 15(1)(b);

            (vii) refusing any permission under section 16(1) or
                   imposing any term or condition when granting
                   such permission;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               38

          (viii) imposing any financial penalty, censure or other
                 order under section 21(1); or

          (ix) refusing any approval under section 23 or imposing
               any term or condition when approving under that
               section;

(b) any direction of the Agency under section 7(6), 15, 18, 20,
     32 or 33;

          (c) any requisition for particulars or information under
              section 35; or

(d) any decision of the Agency under section 37(3),

(each of which decision, direction or requisition is called in this Act
an appealable decision) may, within such time as may be prescribed
under section 28 in respect of the type of appealable decision, lodge
an appeal against the decision to the Appeals Board.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) Every appeal under subsection (1) must be lodged in the form
and manner that may be prescribed under section 28.

(3) The Appeals Board may —

(a) confirm, set aside or modify the appealable decision to
     which the appeal relates; or

(b) give such directions in any manner that the Appeals Board
     thinks fit, including a direction to the Agency to review its
     appealable decision to which the appeal relates,

and the decision of the Appeals Board is final.

                                                                   [24/2016]

 (4) The decision of the Appeals Board must be communicated to
the appellant in writing by the secretary to the Appeals Board.

 (5) The lodging of an appeal under subsection (1) against an
appealable decision does not suspend the effect of the appealable
decision to which the appeal relates, except where the appeal relates
to —

(a) any written direction of the Agency issued under
     section 7(6) or 33 requiring the private education

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
39  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

    institution or the managers thereof to refund the whole or
    any part of any course money to any student or intending
    student of the private education institution; or

    (b) any other appealable decision of the Agency that is
         prescribed under section 28 as a suspended appealable
         decision.
                                                                           [53

                                                                                                     [24/2016]

Disclosure of conflicts of interest by members of Appeals Board

 27.—(1) A member of the Appeals Board must declare to the
Minister, or any person authorised by the Minister, the nature and
extent of all conflicts of interest or potential conflicts of interest (if
any) with his or her duties or interests as a member of the Appeals
Board arising from —

       (a) the member’s holding of any office;

       (b) the member’s interest in any contract;

       (c) the member’s possession or ownership of any property;

       (d) any direct or indirect relationship with a private education
            institution or any other person regulated under this Act; or

       (e) the member’s connection or association with any trade or
            consumer body.

 (2) Where the Minister, or any person authorised by the Minister, is
satisfied that a member of the Appeals Board is unable to carry out the
member’s duties properly and effectively because of any conflict of
interest or potential conflict of interest referred to in subsection (1),
the Minister may replace that member or direct that member to
abstain from taking part in any proceedings relating to any matter
affected by the member’s conflict of interest or potential conflict of
interest.

                                                                               [54

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               40

Rules relating to appeals

28. The Minister may make rules for or with respect to —

(a) the time within which an appeal to the Appeals Board may
     be lodged;

(b) the form and manner in which an appeal to the Appeals
     Board must be lodged;

          (c) the fees to be paid in respect of any appeal lodged with the
              Appeals Board;

(d) the records to be kept by the Appeals Board; and

          (e) all matters and things which are required or permitted to be
              prescribed or which are necessary or expedient to give
              effect to any provision of this Part.
                                                                                 [55

                                    PART 6

         INSPECTION, ENFORCEMENT AND OFFENCES

Appointment of inspectors

 29.—(1) The Agency may appoint any of its officers or employees
to be an inspector for the purposes of this Act.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) The Agency must furnish every inspector with an identification
card that identifies him or her as an inspector.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (3) Every inspector must, when exercising any power under this
Act, on demand produce the inspector’s identification card to the
person affected by the exercise of that power.

                                                                               [56

Inspection of registered private education institutions

 30.—(1) An inspector may enter and inspect the premises under the
possession or control of any registered private education institution
for the purpose of ascertaining whether this Act has been or is being
complied with.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
41  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

 (2) In carrying out an inspection under subsection (1), an inspector
may —

    (a) examine any book, document, material or article as the
         inspector may consider necessary and remove or make
         copies of it for further examination;

    (b) require any person, whether a manager, teacher or student
         of the registered private education institution or otherwise,
         to be present before an inspector or any officer of the
         Agency and —

    (i) to produce for inspection any book, document,
        material or article which is in the possession or
        under the custody of that person, which the inspector
        or an officer of the Agency may remove or make
        copies of for further examination; or

    (ii) to furnish any information which is within the power
         of the person to furnish relating to the control or
         management of the registered private education
         institution, to the teaching carried on in the
         registered private education institution, to the
         student activities of the registered private education
         institution or to any other matter that the inspector
         may specify; or

    (c) do anything that is necessary or expedient for the carrying
        out of the inspection.
                                                                           [57

                                                                                                    [24/2016]

Enforcement powers of inspectors

 31.—(1) In addition to the powers conferred on him or her by this
Act, an inspector may —

       (a) at reasonable hours, enter any premises or part thereof
            (whether or not in the possession or control of a registered
            private education institution) when the inspector has
            reasonable cause to believe that evidence of the
            commission of an offence under this Act can be found in
            those premises, and search for and seize and remove any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               42

          book, document, material or article or make copies thereof
          as the inspector may consider necessary;

(b) require any person whom the inspector reasonably believes
     to have committed the offence to furnish evidence of that
     person’s identity;

          (c) require, by written order, the attendance before the
              inspector of any person within the limits of Singapore
              who, from any information given or otherwise obtained by
              the inspector, appears to be acquainted with the facts or
              circumstances of the case;

(d) examine orally any person reasonably believed to be
     acquainted with the facts or circumstances of the case or
     with any other matter that the inspector may specify, and
     reduce into writing the answer given or statement made by
     that person;

          (e) require any person to furnish any information or produce
              any book, document or copy thereof in the possession of
              that person, and inspect, copy, make extracts from or seize
              and remove such book or document; and

          (f) take such photographs or video recording, as the inspector
              thinks necessary, of the premises and persons reasonably
              believed to be acquainted with the facts or circumstances
              of the case or with any other matter that the inspector may
              specify.

 (2) The person mentioned in subsection (1)(d) is bound to state
truly the facts or circumstances with which the person is acquainted.

 (3) A statement made by the person mentioned in subsection (1)(d)
must be read over to the person and must, after correction, if
necessary, be signed by the person.

 (4) All statements, answers, information and documents procured
in the course of investigation are admissible in evidence in any
proceedings under this Act against the person making or producing
the same.

                                                                               [58

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
43  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

General power to direct remedial measures

 32.—(1) Without limiting any other power vested in the Agency
under this Act, if it appears to the Agency that —

    (a) any provision of this Act has not been complied with by or
         in relation to any registered private education institution;
         or

    (b) any registered private education institution is not being
         efficiently or properly administered,

the Agency may, by written notice addressed to the managers of the
registered private education institution, direct them to take such
measures and within such time as may be specified in the notice in
order that the provision of this Act may be complied with or the
registered private education institution may be efficiently or properly
administered, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) The registered private education institution in respect of which
the Agency has issued a direction under subsection (1) must bear all
costs and expenses arising from complying with the direction.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (3) Where the managers of the registered private education
institution to whom the Agency has addressed a direction under
subsection (1) fail to comply with the direction, the Agency may take
any steps that it thinks reasonable and necessary to give effect to the
direction and recover all costs and expenses reasonably incurred by it
in so doing from the registered private education institution as a civil
debt due to the Agency.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (4) Where any direction issued by the Agency under subsection (1)
addressed to the managers of a registered private education institution
has not been complied with, every manager of the registered private
education institution shall each be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (5) It is a defence for any person charged with an offence under
subsection (4) to prove that he or she had a reasonable excuse for

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               44

failing to comply with the direction of the Agency that is the subject
of the offence.

                                                                               [59

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

Power to direct course money refunds, etc.

 33.—(1) This section applies to a student or intending student of a
private education institution in relation to a course offered or
provided by the private education institution if —

       (a) the course does not start on the agreed starting day;

       (b) the course ceases to be provided at any time after it starts
            but before it is completed; or

       (c) the course is not provided in full to the student or intending
            student because of the Agency refusing to renew the
            registration of the private education institution under
            section 10 or the Agency suspending, cancelling or
            reducing the period of registration of the private
            education institution under section 11,

and the student or intending student has not withdrawn from the
private education institution before the default day.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) Without limiting any other power vested in the Agency under
this Act, the Agency may by written direction addressed to the
managers of a registered private education institution for a course or,
in the case where registration is cancelled, a former registered private
education institution for a course, direct that the registered private
education institution or former registered private education
institution (as the case may be) do either or all of the following:

       (a) refund each student or intending student, within the time
            that may be specified in the direction, the whole or such
            part as the Agency deems equitable of the course money
            the registered private education institution or former
            registered private education institution (as the case may
            be) received in respect of the student or intending student
            before the default day;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
45  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

    (b) make arrangements for each student or intending student of
         the registered private education institution or former
         registered private education institution (as the case may
         be) to be offered a place in another registered private
         education institution to complete the same or a similar
         course, at the private education institution’s expense or
         otherwise, and notify the student or intending student
         accordingly —

    (i) where the provision of the course by the private
        education institution must cease because the Agency
        refused to renew the registration of the private
        education institution under section 10 or the
        registration of the private education institution is
        suspended or cancelled, or the period of its
        registration is reduced, under section 11 — at least
        14 days before it ceases to provide the course or any
        other period that the Agency may allow in any
        particular case; or

              (ii) where the provision of private education by the
                   private education institution must cease for any other
                   reason — at least 30 days before it ceases to provide
                   the course.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (3) Subsection (2) applies despite anything contained in the
agreement or contract between the registered private education
institution or former registered private education institution and the
students or intending students concerned, and subject to
subsection (4), the student or intending student concerned is
entitled to recover the amount specified in the direction to refund
under subsection (2) from the registered private education institution
or former registered private education institution (as the case may be)
as a civil debt in a court of competent jurisdiction.

 (4) The registered private education institution or former registered
private education institution (as the case may be) is relieved of its
liability to make a refund if the student or intending student accepts
the offer under subsection (2)(b) to complete the same or a similar
course at the private education institution’s expense.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               46

 (5) Where any written direction issued by the Agency under
subsection (2) is not complied with, the private education institution
and every manager of the private education institution to whom the
direction is addressed shall each be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (6) In addition to subsection (4), it is a defence for any person
charged with an offence under subsection (5) to prove that the person
had a reasonable excuse for failing to comply with the written
direction of the Agency that is the subject of the offence.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (7) Nothing in this section affects the operation of the Charities
Act 1994, the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018,
the Societies Act 1966 or any other written law relating to the
winding up or dissolution of a private education institution.

                                                                                                           [40/2018]

 (8) In this section —

“agreed starting day”, in relation to a course offered or provided
   by a private education institution, means the day on which the
   course was scheduled to start;

“default day” means —

          (a) the agreed starting day, if subsection (1)(a) applies;
               or

          (b) the day on which the course ceases to be provided if
               subsection (1)(b) or (c) applies.
                                                                           [60

General offences and penalties

 34.—(1) Any person who —

       (a) in relation to any application under this Act or any
            notification under section 17(1) —

               (i) makes any false statement which that person knows
                   to be false or does not believe to be true or which that
                   person makes recklessly; or

              (ii) intentionally suppresses any material fact;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
47  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

    (b) neglects or refuses to produce any book, document,
         material or article or to furnish any information, neglects
         or refuses to attend before an inspector as required,
         furnishes any book, document, material or information
         which is false in a material particular and which that person
         knows to be false or does not believe to be true, or, by the
         intentional suppression of any material fact, furnishes
         information which is misleading, under section 30 or 31;

    (c) obstructs or impedes the Agency, any officer of the Agency
        or any inspector lawfully carrying out any function or duty
        in the exercise of any power conferred by or under this Act;
        or

    (d) being summoned to attend at a hearing of the Appeals
         Board to give evidence or produce any document or other
         article, without reasonable excuse refuses or neglects to do
         so or refuses to answer any questions put to that person by
         or with the concurrence of the Appeals Board, or otherwise
         hinders, obstructs or deceives the Appeals Board in the
         exercise of its powers under this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) Any person guilty of an offence under this Act for which no
penalty is expressly provided shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                               [61

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               48

          PART 7

          MISCELLANEOUS

Power of Agency to issue requisition for particulars or
information

 35.—(1) The Agency may, from time to time, issue a written
requisition to any person to furnish such particulars or supply such
information relating to any matter to which this Act applies as may be
specified in the requisition.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) A requisition issued by the Agency under subsection (1) may —

(a) specify the form in which and the time within which the
     particulars or information are to be furnished;

(b) require the particulars or information to be furnished
     periodically at or within the time or times and in the form
     or forms that are specified in the requisition; and

       (c) specify the place or manner at or in which the particulars or
            information are to be delivered.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (3) Every person who is issued a requisition by the Agency under
subsection (1) must furnish the particulars or supply the information
specified in the requisition to the best of the person’s knowledge and
belief.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (4) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with any requisition issued by the Agency under subsection (1) shall
be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (5) Any person who, in compliance or purported compliance with
any requisition issued by the Agency under subsection (1), furnishes
the Agency with any information or document which that person
knows is false or misleading shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [62

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
49  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

Registers and publication of information

 36.—(1) The Agency may establish, maintain and cause to be
published in any manner that it may determine, one or more registers
in respect of —

    (a) registered private education institutions or any class
         thereof, and any other person that may be prescribed;

    (b) courses offered or provided, or to be offered or provided,
         by any person or class of persons mentioned in
         paragraph (a); or

       (c) any other information relating to private education
            generally or to any Scheme that the Agency may
            determine.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) Regulations may be made under section 44 to prescribe the
manner in which the registers are established or maintained under
subsection (1), including the details or particulars required to be
entered in the registers.

 (3) Any person may, upon payment of the fee that may be
prescribed, inspect and take an extract from any register
established under subsection (1).

 (4) Any extract taken under subsection (3), if certified by the
Agency to be a true copy, is admissible as evidence in any legal
proceedings.

                                                                               [63

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

Power of Agency in relation to dispute resolution schemes

 37.—(1) Regulations may be made under section 44 to prescribe
one or more dispute resolution schemes for the resolution of disputes
arising from or relating to the provision of services by registered
private education institutions to students.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), regulations may be made under
section 44 —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               50

(a) to require registered private education institutions or any
     class thereof to participate in such prescribed dispute
     resolution schemes and to comply with such terms and
     conditions of the scheme as may be prescribed;

(b) to prescribe a list of approved dispute resolution centres
     under each prescribed dispute resolution scheme; and

          (c) generally to give effect to this section.

 (3) Where the Agency is satisfied that any registered private
education institution has contravened any of the regulations
mentioned in subsection (2), the Agency may do all or any of the
following:

(a) impose a financial penalty of any amount, not exceeding
     $5,000, that the Agency thinks fit;

(b) censure the private education institution, if it thinks it
     necessary in the public interest or for the protection of the
     public or any section of the public;

       (c) order that the registration of the private education
            institution be subject to such terms or conditions as may
            be imposed by the Agency, whether in addition to or in
            substitution of the existing terms and conditions of its
            registration.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (4) The Agency must, before making any decision under
subsection (3) in relation to any private education institution, give
the private education institution written notice of its intention to do
so.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (5) Upon receipt of the notice of the Agency under subsection (4),
the private education institution concerned or any manager thereof
may, within 14 days after the date of the notice, show cause to the
Agency as to why the Agency should not impose a financial penalty,
censure or make an order under subsection (3)(c), as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (6) The Agency must, after the private education institution or any
manager thereof has shown cause under subsection (5) or the time to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
51  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

do so has expired, notify the private education institution of its
decision in writing.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (7) Subject to section 26, any decision by the Agency under
subsection (3) must not take effect until the expiry of 14 days after the
Agency has served the notice of the decision on the private education
institution concerned.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (8) The Agency may issue, and publish by notification in the
Gazette or in any other manner that it considers appropriate, any
guidelines that it considers appropriate for providing guidance in
relation to the operation of a prescribed dispute resolution scheme.

                                                                               [64

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

Jurisdiction of court

 38. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment in
respect of the offence.

                                                                               [65

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 39.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               52

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     a partner; or

(b) to be attributable to any neglect on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
     its governing body; or

(b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such officer
     or member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(5) In this section, “officer” —

(a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director, partner,
     member of the committee of management, chief executive,
     manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body
     corporate and includes any person purporting to act in any
     such capacity; or

(b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other than a
     partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
     member of the committee of the unincorporated
     association, or any person holding a position analogous
     to that of president, secretary or member of such a
     committee and includes any person purporting to act in
     any such capacity.

 (6) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with any modification that the Minister
considers appropriate, to any body corporate or unincorporated
association formed or recognised under the law of a territory outside
Singapore.

                                                                               [66

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
53               Private Education Act 2009                  2020 Ed.

Composition of offences

 40.—(1) The Chief Executive or any officer authorised by the Chief
Executive may compound any offence under this Act that is
prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a person
reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum not
exceeding the lower of the following:

    (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
         prescribed for the offence; or

    (b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money mentioned in subsection (1),
no further proceedings are to be taken against that person in respect of
the offence.

                                                                               [67

General exemption

 41. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person
or any class of persons, courses or advertisements from any provision
of this Act, subject to such terms or conditions as may be prescribed.

                                                                               [68

Service of documents

 42.—(1) Any notice, order, direction or other document required or
authorised by this Act to be served on any person may be served on
the person —

       (a) in the case of an individual —

               (i) by delivering it to the individual personally;

              (ii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently resident
                   at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post to, the
                   usual or last known address of the place of residence
                   of the individual;

             (iii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently
                   employed at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
                   post to, the usual or last known address of the place
                   of business of the individual;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               54

          (iv) by affixing a copy of the notice in a conspicuous
               place at the usual or last known address of residence
               or business of the individual; or

          (v) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
               usual or last known address of the place of residence
               or business of the individual, or the last fax number
               given to the Agency by the individual as the fax
               number for the service of documents on the
               individual;

(b) in the case of a partnership other than a limited liability
     partnership —

          (i) by delivering it to any one of the partners or the
              secretary or other similar officer of the partnership;

          (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
               post to, the principal or last known place of business
               of the partnership in Singapore; or

          (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
                principal or last known place of business of the
                partnership in Singapore; and

          (c) in the case of any limited liability partnership or any other
              body corporate —

          (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other similar
              officer of the body corporate or, in the case of a
              limited liability partnership, the manager thereof;

          (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
               post to, the registered office or principal office of the
               limited liability partnership or body corporate in
               Singapore; or

             (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
                   registered office or principal office of the limited
                   liability partnership or body corporate in Singapore.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) Where any notice, order, direction or other document required
or authorised by this Act to be served is sent by fax to the fax number

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
55  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

used at the last known place of residence or business or registered
office or principal office in accordance with subsection (1), it is
deemed to have been duly served on the person to whom it is
addressed on the day of transmission, subject to receipt on the
sending fax machine of a notification (by electronic or other means)
of a successful transmission to the place of residence or business or
registered office or principal office, as the case may be.

 (3) Where any notice, order, direction or other document required
or authorised by this Act to be served is sent by prepaid registered
post, it is deemed to have been duly served on the person to whom it is
addressed 2 days after the day the notice or document was posted,
whether or not it is returned undelivered.

 (4) Any notice, order, direction or other document required or
authorised by this Act to be served on the owner or occupier of any
premises —

    (a) may be served by delivering it or a true copy thereof to
         some adult person on the premises or, if there is no such
         person on the premises to whom it can with reasonable
         diligence be delivered, by affixing the notice, order,
         direction or document to some conspicuous part of the
         premises; and

    (b) is deemed to be properly addressed if addressed by the
         description of the owner or occupier of the premises
         without further name or description.

 (5) Without limiting this section, any notice, order, direction or
other document required or authorised by this Act to be served on a
manager or the managers of a private education institution —

    (a) may be served by delivering it or a true copy thereof to
         some adult person on the premises of the private education
         institution or, if there is no such person on the premises to
         whom it can with reasonable diligence be delivered, by
         affixing the notice, order, direction or document to some
         conspicuous part of the premises; and

    (b) is deemed to be properly addressed if addressed by the
         description of the manager or managers of the registered

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               56

          private education institution without further name or
          description.

 (6) This section does not apply to notices and documents to be
served in proceedings in court.

                                                                               [69

Amendment of Schedule

 43.—(1) The Minister may at any time, by order in the Gazette,
amend the Schedule by adding any education as private education.

 (2) The Minister may, in any order made under subsection (1),
make such incidental, consequential or supplementary provisions as
may be necessary or expedient.

 (3) All orders made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

                                                                               [70

Regulations

 44.—(1) The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations as may be necessary or expedient to give effect to the
provisions and purposes of this Act.

                                                                                                           [24/2016]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), regulations may be made under
that subsection for or in respect of all or any of the following matters:

       (a) the forms to be used and the information to be furnished in,
            or the documents to be furnished with, any application and
            the forms to be used for any other purpose under this Act;

       (b) the fees and charges payable under this Act, including the
            interest or penalty for the late payment of any fee or charge,
            and the waiver, refund or remission, whether wholly or in
            part, of such fees and charges;

       (c) the requirements and restrictions on the names of private
            education institutions or the names of any premises or
            school (or any department or faculty thereof) of or
            education provided by private education institutions, and
            the use or display of such names;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
57  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

    (d) the premises of private education institutions, including
         but not limited to —

    (i) the requirements for office or administrative areas;

    (ii) the number, type and size of classrooms;

    (iii) the facilities and equipment to be provided;

    (iv) the signage in or around the premises;

    (v) the use of the premises; and

    (vi) the restrictions on the sharing of premises with other
         persons;

    (e) the form and manner of the keeping of registers or records
        under this Act, the inspection thereof, the taking of extracts
        therefrom, the supply of copies thereof, and the returns to
        be made to the Agency including financial records;

    (f) the publication of information by private education
        institutions, in such form and manner as may be
        prescribed, relating to the premises, teachers and courses
        of the private education institutions, including but not
        limited to course money, course schedules, examination
        schedules, course particulars and programme modules;

    (g) the administration of courses offered or provided by
         registered private education institutions, including but
         not limited to the requirements relating to the names of
         courses, course programme duration, enrolment of
         students, the form and content of the agreements or
         contracts to be entered into with students, and the
         establishment of boards, committees or other similar
         bodies to oversee academic, examination or
         administrative structures and processes;

    (h) the deployment of teachers by registered private education
         institutions;

    (i) the use of advertisements by or on behalf of a private
        education institution, or any solicitation or canvassing for
        business by or on behalf of a private education institution;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               58

          (j) the use of any accreditation, certification or inspection
              mark of the Agency;

          (k) the regulation of persons who provide any service relating,
              whether directly or indirectly, to the provision of private
              education, including the application, with such
              modifications as may be prescribed, of the provisions of
              this Act to such persons;

          (l) the offences which may be compounded under section 40;

     (m) to prescribe all matters and things which by this Act are
           required or permitted to be prescribed or which are
           necessary or expedient to be prescribed to give effect to
           this Act.

                                                                                                         [24/2016]

(3) Regulations made under subsection (1) —

(a) may relate to all or any class or description of private
     education institutions;

(b) may make different provisions for different classes or
     descriptions of private education institutions;

          (c) may provide that a contravention of any specified
              provision thereof shall be an offence; and

(d) other than regulations prescribed for the purpose of
     section 21, may provide for penalties not exceeding a
     fine of $10,000 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding
     12 months or both for each offence and, in the case of a
     continuing offence, a further penalty not exceeding a fine
     of $1,000 for that offence for every day or part of a day
     during which the offence continues after conviction.
                                                                       [71

Non-application to certain education institutions

 45.—(1) This Act does not apply to the following persons, all of
whom are not to be regarded as private education institutions, or
managers or teachers of private education institutions, as the case
may be:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
59  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

    (a) the Government or any entity owned or controlled by the
         Government and the teachers of a Government school;

    (b) the Institute of Technical Education, Singapore established
         under the Institute of Technical Education Act 1992 or any
         company owned (wholly or partly) by or any undertaking
         of the Institute of Technical Education, Singapore and their
         respective teachers;

    (c) the following Polytechnics or undertakings and their
        respective teachers:

    (i) the Nanyang Polytechnic established under the
        Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992;

    (ii) the Ngee Ann Polytechnic established under the
         Ngee Ann Polytechnic Act 1967;

    (iii) the Republic Polytechnic established under the
          Republic Polytechnic Act 2002;

    (iv) the Singapore Polytechnic established under the
         Singapore Polytechnic Act 1954;

    (v) the Temasek Polytechnic established under the
         Temasek Polytechnic Act 1990; and

    (vi) any company that is owned (wholly or partly) by any
         such Polytechnic referred to in sub‑paragraphs (i)
         to (v);

    (d) any other body that is established or constituted by or
         under a public Act and that has a public function, or any
         entity owned (wholly or partly) or controlled by such a
         body, offering to provide or providing any education, and
         its teachers;

    (e) the organisation, committee of management, managers and
        teachers of any school registered under the Education
        Act 1957 and which receives a grant‑in‑aid or subvention
        extended by the Government to aided schools within the
        meaning of that Act unless the organisation is specified in a
        notification made under the definition of “private
        education institution” in section 2;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               60

          (f) the organisation, committee of management, managers and
              teachers at any special education school for students with
              physical or intellectual disabilities which is registered
              under the Education Act 1957 and which receives a
              subvention extended by the Government;

(g) the organisation, committee of management, managers and
     teachers of any education institution providing education
     in accordance with religious beliefs and principles and no
     other education, including any school exempted under
     section 3 of the Education Act 1957 and any Muslim
     religious school referred to in section 87(1) of the
     Administration of Muslim Law Act 1966;

(h) the governing board constituted for any school under the
     School Boards (Incorporation) Act 1990, its governors and
     the teachers of such a school;

          (i) the Nanyang Technological University, the National
              University of Singapore, the Singapore Management
              University, the Singapore University of Technology and
              Design, the Singapore Institute of Technology, the
              Singapore University of Social Sciences and any other
              person whose function of providing university education is
              determined by written law, any entity owned (wholly or
              partly) or controlled by any such University or person, and
              the teachers of the respective Universities and entities; and

        (j) any place of safety or juvenile rehabilitation centre
            approved, appointed or established under the Children
            and Young Persons Act 1993 or any approved institution
            approved under section 12 of the Probation of Offenders
            Act 1951, respectively, and the respective managers
            thereof.

                                                                                    [11/2014; 19/2017; 30/2017]

 (2) This Act does not apply to, or in relation to, any early childhood
development centre licensed under the Early Childhood
Development Centres Act 2017, the key appointment holders (as

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
61  Private Education Act 2009                               2020 Ed.

defined in that Act) of the licensee of the centre, and the teachers of
the centre.

                                                                               [72

                                                                                                           [19/2017]

Saving and transitional provisions

 46.—(1) Despite the provisions of this Act, any person who,
immediately before 21 December 2009, is registered under the
Education Act 1957 and is in Singapore —

       (a) offering to provide or providing private education, whether
            in Singapore or elsewhere; or

       (b) awarding any degree, diploma or certificate (including any
            honorary degree or other distinction) in respect of private
            education, whether offered or provided in Singapore or
            elsewhere,

(called in this section an existing regulated private education
institution) is deemed to be registered as a private education
institution for a period of 18 months from that date, subject to the
same conditions of its registration as a school under the Education
Act 1957 (if applicable) to the extent that those conditions are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act.

 (2) Despite the provisions of this Act, every course lawfully offered
or provided by an existing regulated private education institution
under the Education Act 1957 immediately before 21 December
2009, whether in Singapore or elsewhere and whether by itself or in
association or collaboration with or by affiliation with any other
person, is deemed to be permitted by the Council under section 16 for
the same period delimited by subsection (1).

 (3) Despite the provisions of this Act, an existing regulated private
education institution which, immediately before 21 December 2009,
is deploying any teacher authorised under the Education Act 1957 to
teach any course to all or any of the students of the existing regulated
private education institution is deemed to have complied with
section 17 for the same period delimited by subsection (1).

 (4) Where anything has been commenced by or on behalf of the
Director‑General of Education under the Education Act 1957 before

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Private Education Act 2009                               62

21 December 2009 (as the case may be) the Minister or the Appeals
Board under the Education Act 1957 in relation to an existing
regulated private education institution, such thing may be carried on
and completed by or under the authority of the Council, the Minister
or the Appeals Board (as the case may be) under the corresponding
provisions in those Parts.

                                                                               [73

                             THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                            Sections 2 and 43(1)

                     DEFINITION OF PRIVATE EDUCATION

1. In this Schedule, unless the context otherwise requires —

    “contract of service” has the meaning given by section 2 of the Employment
        Act 1968;

    “employee” means a person who has entered into or works under a contract
        of service with an employer;

    “employer” has the meaning given by section 2 of the Employment Act 1968;

    “full-time”, in relation to the provision of education, means the provision of
        education of a duration of at least one month and that is conducted for
        5 days of a week for at least 3 hours each day;

    “post-secondary education” means education normally for a person who is
        16 years of age or above;

    “primary or secondary education” means education normally for a child who
        is above 6 years of age and below 18 years of age.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
63  Private Education Act 2009                                  2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

 2. “Private education” means any of the following types of education, whether
provided wholly or in part electronically, through correspondence or in any other
manner:

    (a) education leading to the award of a diploma or degree;

    (b) full-time post-secondary education leading to the award of a
         certificate;

    (c) full-time primary or secondary education wholly or substantially in
        accordance with a foreign or international curriculum;

    (d) full-time special education for students with physical or intellectual
         disabilities;

    (e) full-time education for the purpose of preparing students for any
        examination that —

    (i) leads to a qualification awarded by any person other than the
        person which provides such full-time education; or

    (ii) entitles the students to be admitted to an education institution.

3. “Private education” does not include —

    (a) any apprenticeship whereby an employer undertakes to employ a
         person and to train the person, or have the person trained,
         systematically for a trade or vocation; or

    (b) any education provided by any employer exclusively for the
         employer’s employees.

                                                                                                     [16/2016]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
           PRIVATE EDUCATION ACT 2009

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 21 of 2009 — Private Education Act 2009

Bill           : 15/2009

First Reading  : 18 August 2009

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2009

Commencement   : 1 December 2009 (except Parts 3 to 7)
                     21 December 2009 (Parts 3 to 7)

2. Act 3 of 2011 — Children and Young Persons (Amendment) Act 2011
   (Amendments made by section 36 of the above Act)

Bill           : 35/2010

First Reading  : 22 November 2010

Second and Third Readings : 10 January 2011

Commencement   : 20 July 2011 (section 36)

3. Act 14 of 2011 — Singapore University of Technology and Design
                           Act 2011

   (Amendments made by section 12 of the above Act)

Bill           : 9/2011

First Reading  : 1 March 2011

Second and Third Readings : 11 April 2011

Commencement   : 18 October 2011 (section 12)

4. 2011 Revised Edition — Private Education Act (Chapter 247A)

Operation      : 31 December 2011

5. Act 11 of 2014 — Singapore Institute of Technology Act 2014
   (Amendments made by section 12 of the above Act)

Bill           : 7/2014

First Reading  : 20 January 2014

Second and Third Readings : 17 February 2014

Commencement   : 28 March 2014 (section 12)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
               ii

6. Act 16 of 2016 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2016
   (Amendments made by section 28 of the above Act)

Bill           : 15/2016

First Reading  : 14 April 2016

Second and Third Readings : 9 May 2016

Commencement   : 10 June 2016 (section 28)

7. Act 24 of 2016 — SkillsFuture Singapore Agency Act 2016
   (Amendments made by sections 71 and 72 of the above Act)

Bill           : 24/2016

First Reading  : 11 July 2016

Second and Third Readings : 16 August 2016

Commencement   : 3 October 2016 (sections 71(1)(b) to
                     (h) and 72)
                     4 October 2016 (section 71(1)(a)
                     and (2))

8. Act 30 of 2017 — Singapore University of Social Sciences Act 2017
   (Amendments made by section 12(2) of the above Act)

Bill           : 24/2017

First Reading  : 3 April 2017

Second and Third Readings : 8 May 2017

Commencement   : 11 July 2017 (section 12(2))

9. Act 19 of 2017 — Early Childhood Development Centres Act 2017
   (Amendments made by section 53(5) of the above Act)

Bill           : 7/2017

First Reading  : 6 February 2017

Second and Third Readings : 28 February 2017

Commencement   : 2 January 2019 (section 53(5))

10. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act
     (Amendments made by section 503 of the above Act)

Bill           : 32/2018

First Reading  : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement   : 30 July 2020 (section 503)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                      iii

11. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 124 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 124 of the Schedule)

12. 2020 Revised Edition — Private Education Act 2009

Operation             : 31 December 2021

13. Act 17 of 2026 — Skills and Workforce Development Agency Act 2026
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 13/2026

First Reading         : 8 April 2026

Second and Third Readings : 5 May 2026

Commencement          : 1 July 2026

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
.                                 iv
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
      COMPARATIVE TABLE
PRIVATE EDUCATION ACT 2009

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    2011 Ed.
—                          7 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          8 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          9 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          10 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          11 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          12 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          13 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          14 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          15 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          16 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          17 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          18 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          19 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          20 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          21 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          22 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          23 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          24 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          25 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          26 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          27 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          28 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          29 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
—                          30 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                 2020 Ed.  ii
—
—                                             2011 Ed.
—                           31 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
7                           32 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
8                           33 [Repealed by Act 24 of 2016]
9                           34
10                          35
11                          36
12                          37
13                          38
14                          39
15                          40
16                          41
17                          42
18                          43
19                          44
20                          45
21                          46
22                          47
23                          48
24                          49
25                          50
26                          51
27                          52
28                          53
29                          54
30                          55
31                          56
                            57
                            58

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                 2020 Ed.  iii
32
33                                             2011 Ed.
34                           59
35                           60
36                           61
37                           62
38                           63
39                           64
40                           65
41                           66
42                           67
43                           68
44                           69
45                           70
46                           71
[Omitted as spent]           72
[Omitted as spent]           73
[Omitted as spent]
THE SCHEDULE                    (5)
—                               (6)
                                (7)
—                            FIRST SCHEDULE
                             SECOND SCHEDULE [Repealed by
                             Act 24 of 2016]
                             THIRD SCHEDULE [Repealed by
                             Act 24 of 2016]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
