Western Australia
University Colleges Act 1926

Western Australia
University Colleges Act 1926
Contents
1.	Short title	1
2.	Interpretation	1
3.	Land may be set apart for purposes of Colleges	1
4.	Grants of such land	2
5.	Trust	3
6.	Buildings to be approved by Senate	3
7.	Land not to be leased, and mortgages to be subject to the Trust	3
8.	Rules	3
	Notes
	Compilation table	5
	Defined terms


Western Australia
University Colleges Act 1926
An Act to establish and endow Residential Colleges within the University of Western Australia.
WHEREAS it is desirable to encourage and assist the establishment of residential colleges within the University of Western Australia, in which colleges domestic supervision and opportunities for study shall be provided for students of the University.
Be it therefore enacted by the King’s Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council and Legislative Assembly of Western Australia, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows: —
1.	Short title
		This Act may be cited as the University Colleges Act 1926.
2.	Interpretation
		This Act, unless the content otherwise indicates, the following terms have the meanings set against them respectively: —
	University — The University of Western Australia.
	Senate — The Senate of the University.
	College — A residential college within the University.
	Trustees — The Trustees of a College.
3.	Land may be set apart for purposes of Colleges
		Any body of persons, corporate or unincorporate, desiring to obtain an area of land for establishing a College under the provisions of this Act, may apply to the Senate to set apart for the purposes of such College an area of University land.
		Such application shall be signed on behalf of such body of persons by trustees authorized in that behalf, and such trustees must satisfy the Senate —
	(a)	That the constitution of the College will provide that the College shall always be governed in every respect by a Council.
	(b)	That within five years the Trustees will have available the sum of fifteen thousand pounds at least for the purpose of erecting all necessary buildings on and improving the said area,
		and thereupon the Senate may, with the consent of the Governor, set apart for the purposes of the College an area of University land not exceeding 2.03 hectares.
	[Section 3 amended: No. 8 of 2009 s. 127.]
4.	Grants of such land
		If, within five years from the date of the Governor’s consent as aforesaid, the Council of the College satisfies the Senate that: —
	(a)	the College then has available for building upon and improving the said area of land a sum of at least six thousand pounds in cash, or in investments approved by the Senate, and also a further sum of nine thousand pounds at least in such investments, or represented by binding and responsible promises to provide such sum when required, and that the whole sum is to be devoted exclusively to the erection of college buildings and improvements on the said area of land, and will be so expended within a further period of five years; and that
	(b)	the College will be able to provide its students with satisfactory supervision, tuition, and opportunities for study,
		the Senate shall thereupon report such fact to the Governor, and recommend that the said area of land be granted in fee simple to the trustees of the College, and the Governor is hereby authorized to grant such title notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the University of Western Australia Act 1911, or any other Act.
		Provided that if within five years from the date of the Governor’s consent the Council of the College does not satisfy the Senate as aforesaid, the setting apart of the area of land under section three shall be cancelled.
5.	Trust
		The said land shall be held by the Trustees subject to the provisions of this Act, and upon trust for and to be used as a College for University students, and for such other classes of student (if any) as the Senate may approve, and for no other purpose whatever.
6.	Buildings to be approved by Senate
		No buildings shall be erected or altered or added to, and no improvements shall be made on, the said land unless the plans and specifications and designs have first been submitted to and approved by the Senate.
7.	Land not to be leased, and mortgages to be subject to the Trust
		The said land shall remain in sole possession of the College, and the College shall not, nor shall the trustees lease or let the same or any part thereof, or mortgage or encumber the same, or any part thereof, unless the mortgage or encumbrance is made subject to the provisions of this Act and the trust aforesaid.
8.	Rules
		The Council of the College shall have power from time to time to make and establish all such rules for carrying into effect the several provisions and objects of this Act as to the said Council shall seem expedient, and such rules from time to time to repeal, alter, or amend.

Notes
1.	This is a compilation of the University Colleges Act 1926 and includes the amendments made by the other written laws referred to in the following table.
Compilation table
Short title
Number and year
Assent
Commencement
University Colleges Act 1926
47 of 1926
23 Dec 1926
23 Dec1926
Statutes (Repeals and Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2009 s. 127
8 of 2009
21 May 2009
22 May 2009 (see s. 2(b))


Defined terms

[This is a list of terms defined and the provisions where they are defined.  The list is not part of the law.]
	Defined term	Provision(s)
College	2
Senate	2
Trustees	2
University	2

