GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL ACT 2021

         (No. 3 of 2021)

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
     1.  General interpretation
     2.  Meaning of “gun” and associated terms
     3.  Meaning of “explosive” and associated terms
     4.  Meaning of “possession” and associated terms
     5.  Meaning of “manufacture” and associated terms
     6.  Meaning of “supply” and associated terms
     7.  Meanings of “acquire”, “transfer” and associated terms
     8.  Meanings of “convey”, “import” and “export” and associated
     9.  terms
         Purposes of Act
   10.

                                        PART 2

                                      OFFENCES

                    Division 1 — Guns and gun accessories

11. Unauthorised possession or use of guns, etc.
12. Unauthorised manufacture, etc., of guns, etc.
13. Unauthorised possession of digital blueprints for manufacture of

         guns, etc.
14. Unauthorised trade in guns, etc.
15. Unauthorised supply or conveyance of guns, etc.
16. Unauthorised acquisition of guns, etc.
17. Penalties for offences for unlicensed regulated activities

         involving guns, etc.
18. Breach of gun, etc., licence conditions
19. Unauthorised shooting range or paintball range operations
20. Penalties for offences for unauthorised shooting ranges, etc.

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
2        NO. 3 OF 2021

         Division 2 — Explosives and explosive precursors

Section  Unauthorised use of explosive or explosive precursor
   21.   Unauthorised possession of explosive or explosive precursor
   22.   Unauthorised manufacture, etc., of explosives or explosive
   23.   precursors
         Unauthorised trade in explosives or explosive precursors
   24.   Unauthorised supply or conveyance of explosives or explosive
   25.   precursors
         Unauthorised acquisition of explosives or explosive precursors
   26.   Penalties for offences for unlicensed regulated activities
   27.   involving explosives, etc.
         Breach of explosive, etc., licence conditions
   28.

         Division 3 — Weapons and noxious substances

   29. Unauthorised possession of weapons and noxious substances
   30. Unauthorised manufacture, etc., of weapons
   31. Unauthorised trade in weapons or noxious substances
   32. Unauthorised supply or conveyance of weapons or noxious

            substances
   33. Unauthorised acquisition of weapon or noxious substance
   34. Penalties for offences for unlicensed regulated activities

            involving weapons or noxious substances
   35. Breach of weapon or noxious substance licence condition

         Division 4 — Other offences

   36. Loss of guns and explosives, etc.
   37. Misuse of licence
   38. Unauthorised transfer of guns, explosives, etc.
   39. Surrender of guns, etc., by unauthorised persons
   40. Offences arrestable

                                           PART 3
                               SECURITY CLEARANCE
                          Division 1 — Interpretive provisions
   41. Meaning of “close associate” of licensee or applicant
   42. Meaning of holding an equity interest
                            Division 2 — Security clearance
   43. Security clearance a prerequisite for licence, etc.

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
         GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     3

Section  Validity of security clearance
         Granting security clearance
   44.   Cancellation of security clearance
   45.
   46.

         Division 3 — Offences

47. Special workers need security clearance
48. Notice about close associates

                                        PART 4

                                     LICENSING

                               Division 1 — Licences

49. Classes of licences
50. Application for or to renew licence
51. Grant of licences
52. Licence validity
53. Conditions of licences
54. Modifying conditions of licence
55. Restriction on transfer and surrender of licence

                            Division 2 — Class licences

56. Class licence
57. Variation and revocation of class licence
58. Conditions applicable to class licensee

                                        PART 5

                 BUSINESS OPERATION REQUIREMENTS

           Division 1 — Management controls and record‑keeping

59. Change in management of licensee
60. Accounts and statements
61. Record-keeping and giving information

                     Division 2 — Standards and directions

62. Standards for licensees and class licensees
63. Directions affecting licensees and class licensees
64. Security directions
65. How security direction is given

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
4        NO. 3 OF 2021

         PART 6

         ENFORCEMENT

         Division 1 — Regulatory action

Section  Suspension or revocation, etc., of licence or class licence
         Regulatory action can continue despite licence expiry, etc.
   66.   Proceedings for regulatory action
   67.
   68.

         Division 2 — Enforcement powers

   69. Purpose for which enforcement powers are exercisable
   70. Powers of entry, etc., at premises
   71. Powers in relation to conveyances
   72. Power to obtain information
   73. Offences
   74. Composition of offences

                                           PART 7

                                          APPEALS

   75. Interpretation of this Part
   76. Appeal to Minister
   77. Decision on appeal

                                           PART 8

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   78. Administration of Act by licensing officer
   79. Authorised officers
   80. Compliance officers
   81. Offences by corporations
   82. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   83. Jurisdiction of courts
   84. Service of documents
   85. Disposal of unclaimed guns, etc.
   86. Act binds Government
   87. General exemption for law enforcement, etc.
   88. Exemption for defence purposes
   89. Administrative exemption
   90. Regulations
   91. Amendment of Schedules

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                              5

Section
   92. Presentation to Parliament

                                            PART 9

                          AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS
                               AND FINAL PROVISIONS

   93. Amendments to Arms Offences Act
   94. Amendments to Corrosive and Explosive Substances and

            Offensive Weapons Act
   95. Amendments to Criminal Procedure Code
   96. Related amendment to Miscellaneous Offences (Public Order

            and Nuisance) Act
   97. Consequential amendments to other Acts
   98. Repeal
   99. Saving and transitional provisions

            First Schedule — Weapons
            Second Schedule — Explosive precursors
            Third Schedule — Saving and transitional provisions

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
6  NO. 3 OF 2021

An Act to control the handling of guns, gun accessories, explosives,
  explosive precursors, weapons and noxious substances, to repeal
  the Arms and Explosives Act (Chapter 13 of the 2003 Revised
  Edition), the Dangerous Fireworks Act (Chapter 72 of the
  2014 Revised Edition) and the Explosive Substances Act
  (Chapter 100 of the 2014 Revised Edition), to make related
  amendments to the Arms Offences Act (Chapter 14 of the
  2008 Revised Edition) and the Corrosive and Explosive
  Substances and Offensive Weapons Act (Chapter 65 of the
  2013 Revised Edition) regarding offences and penalties, and to
  make consequential amendments to certain other Acts.

  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the
Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     7

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act is the Guns, Explosives and Weapons Control Act 2021
and comes into operation on a date that the Minister appoints by
notification in the Gazette.

General interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “applicant” means an applicant for or to renew a licence;

      “authorised officer”, in relation to any provision of this Act,
         means an individual who is appointed as an authorised officer
         under section 79(1) for the purposes of that provision;

      “business” includes any business, whether or not carried on for
         profit;

      “chief executive officer”, in relation to a licensee, means an
         individual (by whatever name described) who —

              (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
                   arrangement with, the licensee; and

              (b) is principally responsible for the management and
                   conduct of the business of the licensee insofar as it
                   relates to carrying on a regulated activity,

         and includes an individual for the time being performing all
         or any of the functions or duties of a chief executive officer;

      “class licence” means a class licence determined under an order
         made under section 56(1), and includes a class licence as
         from time to time varied under section 57;

      “class licensee” means a person to which a class licence applies;

      “compliance officer” means an individual appointed under
         section 80;

      “container” means any thing in or by which a gun, a major part
         of a gun or a gun accessory, an explosive or explosive

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
8  NO. 3 OF 2021

      precursor, or a weapon or noxious substance, is wholly or
      partly cased, covered, enclosed, contained or packed, and
      includes any covering or wrapping, but excludes a
      conveyance;

   “convey” means carriage on any conveyance (whether or not in
      the course of a business) and includes any operation
      incidental to the whole course of carriage, such as loading,
      unloading and storage in transit;

   “conveyance” includes any aircraft, train, vehicle, vessel or
      other mode of transport of passengers or goods;

   “corporation” means any body corporate formed or incorporated
      or existing in or outside Singapore and includes any foreign
      company within the meaning of the Companies Act
      (Cap. 50);

   “director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
      Companies Act;

   “dispose” means destroy or handle with a view to destroying,
      and includes rendering harmless, but excludes discharging or
      firing an explosive in the course of mining, quarrying or an
      industrial application or as a display or provision of
      entertainment;

   “explosive”, “explosive device” and “explosive substance” have
      the meanings given by section 4;

   “granted” or “grant”, for a licence, includes granted or grant on
      renewal and required to be treated as granted under
      section 6(5) or 7(5) or the Third Schedule;

   “gun” and “gun accessory” have the meanings given by
      section 3;

   “handle” includes to store, manufacture, repair, dispose of,
      convey, import, export or supply;

   “law enforcement agency” means —

           (a) the Singapore Police Force; or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     9

        (b) any public sector agency which is charged with the
             duty of investigating offences or charging offenders
             under any written law and prescribed in Regulations
             for the purposes of this definition;

“licence” means a licence granted under Part 4 that —

        (a) authorises the licensee granted the licence to carry on
             a regulated activity specified in the licence; and

        (b) is in force;

“licensee” means a person to whom a licence is granted under
   this Act but does not include a class licensee;

“Licensing Officer”, in relation to any provision of this Act,
   means an individual appointed under section 78(1) as a
   Licensing Officer for the purposes of that provision;

“limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by the
   Limited Liability Partnerships Act (Cap. 163A);

“MARPLEX Convention” means —

        (a) the Convention on the Marking of Plastic Explosives
             for the Purpose of Detection concluded in Montreal
             on 1st March 1991; or

        (b) if the Convention in paragraph (a) is amended and the
             amendment binds Singapore, that Convention as so
             amended;

“MARPLEX Convention excepted use”, in relation to a plastic
   explosive, means use of the plastic explosive exclusively for
   one or more of the following:

        (a) research, development or testing of new or modified
             explosives;

        (b) development or testing of explosives detection
             equipment;

        (c) training in explosives detection;

        (d) forensic science;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
10  NO. 3 OF 2021

    “modification” or “modify”, in relation to the conditions of a
       licence, includes deleting, or varying and substituting a
       condition, and adding a condition;

    “noxious substance” means any nauseating or lachrymatory
       substance, and includes any of the following:

            (a) a container specially constructed to directly hold any
                 noxious substance, such as a cartridge, cylinder,
                 pressurised can or round containing a noxious
                 substance;

            (b) an object or a thing that, if used in the way for which
                 it is or was designed or adapted, is or was capable of
                 being aimed at a target and causing hurt or injury by
                 discharging any noxious substance directly onto the
                 target, such as a pepper spray gun or cannister;

    “occupier”, in relation to any place or premises, includes an
       individual present at the place or premises who is in apparent
       control of the place or premises;

    “offence under this Act” includes an offence under any
       Regulations;

    “officer”, in relation to an applicant or a class licensee or
       licensee, means —

            (a) where the applicant, class licensee or licensee is a
                 body corporate (including a limited liability
                 partnership) —

                   (i) an individual for the time being holding the
                        office of chairperson, director, partner, chief
                        executive officer, manager or company
                        secretary (as the case may be) of the body or
                        any position analogous to any of those offices;
                        or

                   (ii) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by
                        its members, any of those members as if the
                        member were a director of the corporation;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     11

        (b) where the applicant, class licensee or licensee is a
             partnership (including a limited partnership), a
             partner of the partnership; or

        (c) where the applicant, class licensee or licensee is an
             unincorporated association (other than a partnership),
             an individual for the time being holding the office of
             president, secretary or member (as the case may be)
             of the committee of the unincorporated association,
             or any position analogous to any of those offices,

   and includes any person carrying out the duties of any such
   office referred to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) if the office is
   vacant;

“paintball” means a projectile that primarily consists of a dye,
   paint or similar substance designed to mark an individual or
   an object;

“paintball marker” means a gun designed to discharge a
   paintball;

“paintball range operator” means a person who carries on the
   business of providing or arranging for the provision of
   grounds for the use by participants in an organised activity
   involving the use of paintball markers (but not involving the
   use of any other gun);

“partner”, in relation to a limited partnership, includes a limited
   partner in the limited partnership;

“place” includes any conveyance;

“premises” means —

        (a) a building or structure, whether permanent,
             temporary or portable;

        (b) any area or space, whether or not enclosed, and
             whether underground or underwater;

        (c) any land, whether built on or not; or

        (d) any body of water;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
12  NO. 3 OF 2021

    “prohibited weapon” means a weapon that —

            (a) is particularly dangerous by reason of its design,
                 construction or any other factor; or

            (b) by reason of its size or any other factor, could be
                 more readily concealed and would be particularly
                 suited to unlawful use,

       such that, in the opinion of the Minister, it is expedient for the
       public safety to prescribe the weapon to be a prohibited
       weapon;

    “provision of this Act” includes a provision of any Regulations
       or other subsidiary legislation made under this Act;

    “public authority” means —

            (a) any Ministry, department of the Government or
                 Organ of State; or

            (b) any body established or constituted by or under any
                 public Act to perform a public function;

    “regulated activity” means any of the following activities
       involving a gun, a major part of a gun or a gun accessory,
       an explosive or explosive precursor, or a weapon or noxious
       substance:

            (a) import or export;

            (b) store (but not storage incidental to conveyance);

            (c) manufacture;

            (d) repair;

            (e) supply;

            (f) convey;

            (g) use or otherwise possess;

            (h) dispose;

            (i) operate a shooting range or paintball range;

    “Regulations” means any regulations made under section 90;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     13

“regulatory action” means any action that may be taken by the
   Licensing Officer —

        (a) under section 66(1) or (2) against a licensee or class
             licensee; or

        (b) under section 67(2) against a former licensee or
             former class licensee;

“repeat offender”, in relation to any offence under this Act,
   means a person who —

        (a) is convicted, or found guilty, of such an offence
             (called the current offence); and

        (b) has been convicted or found guilty, on at least one
             other earlier occasion within the period of 5 years
             immediately before the date on which the person is
             convicted or found guilty of the current offence, of —

               (i) the same offence; or

               (ii) another offence prescribed in this Act as a
                    countable offence in respect of the current
                    offence;

“representative staff”, for a licensee, means an individual
   (whether or not an employee or officer of the licensee)
   who —

        (a) is directly involved in the day‑to‑day management of
             a regulated activity carried on by the licensee;

        (b) has access to and is authorised to provide any
             information relating to the regulated activity that is
             required by or under any provision of this Act; and

        (c) is authorised to represent for the purposes of this Act
             the licensee;

“responsible executive”, in relation to an applicant or a class
   licensee or licensee, means an officer thereof who is —

        (a) in the case of a corporation, a director, chief
             executive officer, general manager or a person in a
             position analogous to any of those offices;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
14  NO. 3 OF 2021

            (b) in the case of a corporation whose affairs are
                 managed by its members, a member designated by
                 those members to be the responsible executive of the
                 corporation;

            (c) in the case of a partnership (including a limited
                 partnership), a partner of the partnership; or

            (d) in the case of a society or an unincorporated
                 association (other than a partnership), a president,
                 secretary or treasurer or a person in a position
                 analogous to that of a president, secretary or
                 treasurer,

       and includes any person carrying out the duties of any such
       office referred to in paragraph (a), (c) or (d) if the office is
       vacant;

    “security clearance” means a security clearance granted under
       Division 2 of Part 3;

    “security sensitive information” means information held by a
       law enforcement agency that relates to actual or suspected
       criminal activity (whether in Singapore or elsewhere) the
       disclosure of which could reasonably be expected to —

            (a) prejudice a criminal investigation;

            (b) enable the discovery of the existence or identity of a
                 confidential source of information relevant to law
                 enforcement;

            (c) endanger a person’s life or physical safety; or

            (d) disclose the existence or content of a security
                 intelligence report or information;

    “shooting gallery” means an indoor or outdoor gallery at which
       members of the public can use an airgun that is attached to a
       shooting bench to shoot at stationary or moving targets;

    “shooting range” includes a shooting gallery;

    “shooting range operator” means a person who carries on the
       business of providing a shooting range (but not a paintball

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     15

   range) for use by members of the public and guns (other than
   paintball markers) for use by members of the public at the
   range;

“special worker” means an individual who is or is to be
   employed or required to work with or for a licensee —

        (a) in a managerial or directorial capacity involving the
             exercise of his or her discretion, that regulates the
             licensee’s operations in the regulated activity
             authorised by the licensee’s licence but is not a
             responsible executive; or

        (b) in any capacity relating to any of the following
             activities:

               (i) the security and surveillance of the premises
                    where the licensee is authorised to conduct the
                    regulated activity authorised by the licensee’s
                    licence;

               (ii) the assembling, cleaning, repair, packing,
                    transport or delivery of any gun, major part
                    of a gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive
                    precursor, weapon or noxious substance, in the
                    course of the licensee’s operations authorised
                    by the licensee’s licence;

              (iii) such other activity authorised by the licensee’s
                    licence that is prescribed for the purposes of
                    this definition;

              (iv) the supervision of any activity in
                    sub‑paragraph (i), (ii) or (iii);

“standard” means a standard issued or approved by the
   Licensing Officer under section 62, and includes any such
   standard as amended from time to time under that section;

“store”, in relation to any gun, major part of a gun, explosive or
   explosive precursor, means —

        (a) to store or offer to store for another person in any
             place or premises the gun, major part of a gun,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
16  NO. 3 OF 2021

             explosive or explosive precursor (regardless of
             number or quantity), being a place or premises that
             the person storing or offering to store is an occupier
             of; or

        (b) to have possession of the gun, major part of a gun,
             explosive or explosive precursor in any place or
             premises, whether or not of the same model or kind
             and regardless of number or quantity —

                (i) for the purpose of manufacture, repair,
                    disposal, supply, import or export; or

               (ii) in connection with carrying on business as a
                    shooting range operator or a paintball range
                    operator,

        (b) being a place or premises that the person storing or
             having possession is an occupier of,

    and includes —

        (c) in the case of any explosive or explosive precursor,
             possession thereof —

                (i) for or in connection with any other purpose;
                    and

               (ii) for more than 24 continuous hours in any place
                    or premises that the person in possession is an
                    occupier of; and

        (d) in the case of any gun or major part of a gun, to have
             the control or management of for any purpose, or to
             collect or keep a collection of (for display or
             otherwise), on any place or premises —

                (i) 12 or more guns, whether or not of the same
                    model or kind;

               (ii) 12 or more major parts of a gun, whether or not
                    of the same model or kind; or

              (iii) a combination of guns or major parts of a gun
                    which number in total 12 or more,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     17

              (d) being a place or premises that the person with the
                   control or management or collecting or keeping the
                   collection is an occupier of;

      “substance” means any natural or artificial substance, whether in
         solid or liquid form or in the form of a gas or vapour;

      “thing” includes a substance;

      “unincorporated association” means a society or body
         unincorporate which, under any written law, may sue or be
         sued, or hold property, in the name of an officer of the society
         or body duly appointed for that purpose;

      “use” —

              (a) in relation to a gun, means —

                     (i) to fire the gun; or

                     (ii) to hold the gun so as to cause a reasonable
                          belief that it will be fired, whether or not it is
                          capable of being fired; and

              (b) in relation to an explosive, includes —

                     (i) to prepare, assemble, charge or discharge, or
                          fire the explosive; or

                     (ii) to initiate or discharge a firework,

              (b) but excludes use for the purpose of manufacture,
                   disposal, repair, import, export, conveyance or
                   supply;

      “weapon” means an object or a thing specified in the First
         Schedule;

      “wrapping”, in relation to a plastic explosive, means a wrapper
         the inner surface of which is in contact with the plastic
         explosive.

 (2) Regulations may be made to reduce any period and number
mentioned in paragraphs (c) and (d), respectively, of the definition of
“store”.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
18  NO. 3 OF 2021

 (3) However, for the purposes of this Act, a person is not taken to
store any object or thing by reason only that it is storage in transit or
other like operation incidental to the whole course of carriage of that
object or thing.

 (4) For the purposes of this Act —

       (a) a licensee is not regarded as being granted a licence to
            carry on any regulated activity involving a gun, a major
            part of a gun or a gun accessory, an explosive or explosive
            precursor, or a weapon or noxious substance, or a shooting
            range or paintball range, during the period the licence for
            that regulated activity is suspended under section 66; and

       (b) a class licensee is not regarded as authorised under a class
            licence to carry on any regulated activity involving a gun, a
            major part of a gun or a gun accessory, an explosive or
            explosive precursor, or a weapon or noxious substance, or
            a shooting range or paintball range, during the period the
            application of the class licence to that class licensee for that
            regulated activity is suspended under section 66.

Meaning of “gun” and associated terms

 3.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, “gun”
means an object or a thing that, if used in the way for which it is or
was designed or adapted, is or was capable of being aimed at a target
and causing hurt or injury by —

       (a) propelling a bullet, shot or other projectile (which may or
            may not contain any noxious substance); or

       (b) discharging any corrosive substance or poison,

by means of a burning propellant, compressed air or other
compressed gas, or an explosive force (however caused), and
includes any of the following:

       (c) an object or a thing mentioned in subsection (2)(a);

       (d) a collection of major parts of a gun mentioned in
            subsection (2)(b).

                                             Examples

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     19

    An electronic dart gun.
    A ballistic knife.
    A handgun or revolver.
    An automatic gun or pistol.
    A spear gun.
    A stun gun or taser.
    A firearm designed to fire projectiles containing tear gas or poison.
    A firearm designed to tranquillise, immobilise or administer vaccines or other
medicines to animals.

      A howitzer, mortar, bazooka and similar military firearms designed to fire
explosive projectiles.

    A machine gun or sub‑machine gun.
    A self-loading rifle or shotgun.
    A paint-pellet gun or paintball marker.
    An airgun.
   A starting pistol the purpose of which is for use in the starting of racing events in
sporting competitions.

(2) For the purposes of this Act —

      (a) an object or a thing that would be a gun —

              (i) if it did not have something missing from it, or a
                  defect or obstruction in it; or

             (ii) if it were not for the fact that something has been
                  added to it,

      (a) must be taken to be a gun;

      (b) a collection of the major parts of a gun that if assembled
           would be a gun (or would be a gun if it were assembled and
           in working order) is taken to be a gun; and

      (c) a reference to a gun of a particular category or kind
           includes a reference to an object or a thing that would be a
           gun of that category or kind if not for paragraph (a)(i) or
           (ii).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
20  NO. 3 OF 2021

(3) In this Act, “major part of a gun” means any component —

      (a) that, of itself, is essential to the discharge of any shot,
           bullet, missile, or other projectile from the gun;

      (b) that is exclusively designed to be, or is intended to be, an
           integral part of the gun, without which the gun would be
           considered inoperable or incomplete; or

      (c) that feeds or contributes to feeding ammunition to the gun.

                                           Examples
   A gas piston, friction ring, action bar, breech bolt or breech block.
   A firearm barrel.
   A trigger or firing mechanism.
   A frame or receiver.
   A slide.
   An upper or a lower receiver.
   A revolving cylinder.
   A bolt carrier.
   An adjustable, detachable or folding stock.

(4) However, “gun” does not include the following:

      (a) a longbow, crossbow, slingshot or shanghai;

      (b) an object or a thing that, if used in the way for which it is or
           was designed or adapted, is or was capable of being aimed
           at a target and causing hurt or injury by discharging any
           noxious substance directly onto the target, such as a pepper
           spray gun or cannister;

      (c) an imitation gun, which is an object that, regardless of its
           colour, weight or composition or the presence or absence
           of any moveable part, substantially duplicates in
           appearance a gun but that is not a gun;

      (d) any other object or thing prescribed not to be a gun.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     21

(5) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

    “airgun” means a gun that —

            (a) can propel, or is designed to propel, a projectile by
                 means of any gas or mixture of gases, including air
                 but not including a gas or mixture of gases generated
                 by an explosive; and

            (b) is operated or designed for operation by means of a
                 trigger or similar device;

    “automatic gun” means a gun that is designed to fire a round
        when the trigger is brought to the firing position and to
        continue to fire one or more rounds automatically while the
        trigger is held in that position;

    “ballistic knife” means a device or an instrument designed to fire
        or discharge a knife, dagger or similar instrument by
        mechanical, percussive or explosive means;

    “electronic dart gun” means a portable device that —

            (a) is powered by electricity and, when switched on, is
                 capable of expelling or projecting a projectile; and

            (b) upon coming in contact with a person or an animal, is
                 capable of inflicting injury or an electric shock by a
                 high voltage, low amperage charge to such person or
                 animal;

    “firing mechanism”, for a gun, means the mechanism of the gun
        that is designed for the purpose of firing the gun, and includes
        a trigger mechanism or firing pin;

    “gun accessory” means any object or thing that —

            (a) is not a major part of a gun;

            (b) is not a weapon;

            (c) is designed to be fitted to, or adapted to fit, a gun; and

            (d) whether or not complete, damaged, temporarily or
                 permanently inoperable, or unfinished, can be fitted
                 to, or adapted to fit, is —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
22  NO. 3 OF 2021

                   (i) a magazine adapter;

                   (ii) a flash suppressor;

                  (iii) a silencer, sound moderator, sound suppressor
                        or any other device designed to reduce, or
                        capable of reducing, the noise of discharge of
                        the gun;

                  (iv) a mechanism or other device designed to
                        modify, or capable of converting, a gun to
                        give it any of the following capabilities:

                         (A) burst fire;

                         (B) semi-automatic operation;

                         (C) fully automatic operation; or

                   (v) any other mechanism or device that is
                        prescribed (by description, model or
                        otherwise) for the purposes of this definition;

    “loading mechanism”, for a gun, means all the parts of the gun
       (except the barrel) that are designed to place or hold or to
       place and hold a round in position for firing, and includes the
       magazine of the gun, if any;

    “prohibited gun” means a gun that —

            (a) is particularly dangerous by reason of its design,
                 construction or any other factor; or

            (b) by reason of its size or any other factor, could be
                 more readily concealed than other guns of the same
                 category or would be particularly suited to unlawful
                 use,

       such that, in the opinion of the Minister, it is expedient for the
       public safety to prescribe the gun to be a prohibited gun;

    “prohibited gun accessory” means any gun accessory that could
       easily convert a gun to become —

            (a) a more dangerous gun (whether or not a prohibited
                 gun);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
   GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                         23

           (b) a more easily concealed gun; or

           (c) a gun which would be particularly suited to unlawful
                use,

      such that, in the opinion of the Minister, it is expedient for the
      public safety to prescribe the gun accessory to be a prohibited
      gun accessory;

   “receiver”, for a gun, means the body or frame of the gun that is
      designed to hold the firing mechanism or the loading
      mechanism or both in place, but does not include the stock
      or barrel of the gun;

   “sound moderator” means a device designed or adapted to be
      attached to, or comprising part of, a gun to muffle the report
      when the gun is fired, and includes baffles, tubes or other
      parts that when fitted together would comprise a sound
      moderator;

   “stun gun” means a portable device which is powered by
      electricity and from which any electric current, discharge,
      impulse, wave or beam can be emitted and if directed at an
      individual or animal, can incapacitate temporarily, injure or
      kill the individual or animal.

Meaning of “explosive” and associated terms

   4.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

   “ammunition” means —

   (a) an article consisting of a cartridge case fitted with a
        live primer and a projectile;

   (b) an article consisting of a cartridge case fitted with a
        live primer and containing a propelling charge and a
        projectile;

.                         Example

   A nail gun cartridge.

   (c) a live primer, propellant or blank cartridge; or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
24  NO. 3 OF 2021

            (d) an object or a thing suitable for use as ammunition in
                 a gun and prescribed for the purposes of this
                 definition, whether or not containing an explosive
                 substance but not containing a noxious substance,

       but excludes an inert blank cartridge or inert drill round, a
       snap cap or other item designed to fit in the breech or
       chamber of a gun for the purpose of preventing damage to a
       firing pin, and a paintball;

    “detection agent” means a substance that —

            (a) is intended to be used to enhance the detectability of
                 explosives by vapour detection means; and

            (b) is prescribed for the purposes of this definition;

    “distress signal” means a pyrotechnic device intended for
       signalling or warning or similar purposes, and includes a
       marine flare or signal, landing flare, highway flare, highway
       fusee, line‑carrying rocket, cloud seeding rocket, railway fog
       signal or smoke generator;

    “explosive” means —

            (a) an explosive substance;

            (b) ammunition;

            (c) a firework or rocket firework;

            (d) a sand cracker; or

            (e) an explosive device;

    “explosive device” means any of the following that contains an
       explosive substance:

            (a) a bomb;

            (b) a grenade;

            (c) a mine;

            (d) a fog signal, distress signal or fuse;

            (e) a detonator, blasting cap or percussion cap;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     25

        (f) an object or a thing prescribed to be an explosive
             device,

   and includes a collection of parts mentioned in
   subsection (2), but excludes an imitation explosive device;

“explosive precursor” means any substance specified in the
   Second Schedule;

“explosive substance” means —

        (a) gunpowder, nitro-glycerine, dynamite, gun‑cotton,
             blasting powder, fulminate of mercury or of other
             metals or coloured fires, and any adaptation or
             preparation of anything in this paragraph;

        (b) a solid or liquid substance that is manufactured or
             used with a view to produce a practical effect by
             explosion or a pyrotechnic effect;

        (c) a solid or liquid substance which, if not for it being
             wetted or otherwise phlegmatised to suppress its
             explosive properties, produces a practical effect by
             explosion or a pyrotechnic effect; or

        (d) any other substance that is prescribed to be an
             explosive substance for the purposes of this
             definition;

“firework” means —

        (a) an article or a substance, containing one or more
             explosive substances (with or without other
             substances) that is designed to entertain people by
             producing light, sound, gas, smoke, or a combination
             of them, by means of an exothermic chemical
             reaction that does not rely on oxygen from external
             sources to sustain the reaction; or

        (b) any other article or a thing prescribed to be a
             firework;

“high explosive” includes —

        (a) cyclotetramethylenetetranitramine (HMX);

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
26  NO. 3 OF 2021

            (b) pentaerythritol tetranitrate (PETN); and

            (c) cyclotrimethylenetrinitramine (RDX);

    “imitation explosive device” means an object that, regardless of
       its colour, weight or composition or the presence or absence
       of any moveable part, substantially duplicates in appearance
       an explosive device but is not an explosive device, and
       includes any such object that is produced and identified as a
       toy or replica;

    “mine” means a munition (other than a command‑detonated
       munition) designed, intended or altered so as —

            (a) to be placed under, on or near the ground or other
                 surface area; and

            (b) to be exploded by the presence, proximity or contact
                 of a person or a vehicle;

    “plastic explosive” means any explosive which —

            (a) is formulated with one or more high explosives
                 which in their pure form have vapour pressure of less
                 than 10‑4 Pa at a temperature of 25°C;

            (b) is formulated with a binder material; and

            (c) is, when mixed, malleable or flexible at normal room
                 temperature;

    “prohibited explosive” means an explosive of a character that, in
       the opinion of the Minister, is so specially dangerous to life or
       property that it is expedient for the public safety to prescribe
       the explosive to be a prohibited explosive;

    “rocket firework” includes any firework which will travel over a
       distance when activated before it produces a practical effect
       by explosion or a pyrotechnic effect;

    “round” means an undischarged complete live cartridge;

    “sand cracker” means a pellet containing an explosive which
       will be activated when set on fire or rubbed on any abrasive
       surface or by any other means;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     27

      “unmarked plastic explosive” means a plastic explosive that, at
         the time of its manufacture —

              (a) does not contain a detection agent;

              (b) contains a detection agent the concentration of which
                   is less than the minimum concentration prescribed in
                   the Regulations for that detection agent; or

              (c) contains a detection agent that is not homogenously
                   distributed throughout the plastic explosive.

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, any collection of the parts of an
explosive device that if assembled would be an explosive device
(or would be an explosive device if it were assembled and in working
order) is taken to be an explosive device.

Meaning of “possession” and associated terms

 5.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, a person has “possession” of a
gun, a major part of a gun or a gun accessory, an explosive or
explosive precursor, or a weapon or noxious substance if —

       (a) the person, being an individual, carries or has an object or a
            thing on his or her person, including something carried or
            worn by the person (called in this section physical
            possession), and the individual knows or has reason to
            believe that the object or thing is a gun, a major part of a
            gun or a gun accessory, an explosive or explosive
            precursor, or a weapon or noxious substance;

       (b) the person has the care, control or management of the gun,
            major part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive
            precursor, weapon or noxious substance;

       (c) the person has the gun, major part of a gun, gun accessory,
            explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or noxious
            substance in the care, control or management of another
            person, including storing it with that other person;

       (d) the person drives, flies or otherwise operates (even by
            remote control) any vehicle, vessel, aircraft or other device
            conveying or otherwise carrying the gun, major part of a

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
28  NO. 3 OF 2021

            gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive precursor,
            weapon or noxious substance;

       (e) the gun, major part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive,
            explosive precursor, weapon or noxious substance is in or
            on any place or premises, owned, leased or occupied by, or
            in the care, control or management of, the person; or

        (f) the gun, major part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive,
            explosive precursor, weapon or noxious substance is
            within any container owned or in the care, control or
            management of, the person.

                                            Illustration

    A buys a pistol illegally. A hands it to B to look after it for him while A appears in
court. A still has the care, control or management of the pistol and so has possession
of the gun. B holds the pistol and also has possession of the gun.

   A is a member of a gun club which provides an armoury for their members to store
their handguns. The gun club and A each have possession of A’s handgun deposited
at that armoury. A is subsequently elected as armourer of the gun club. The gun club
and A each have possession of all handguns held in the armoury of the gun club for
the members of the gun club.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), for the purposes of this Act, a
person has possession of a gun, an explosive device or a weapon if —

       (a) any major part of the gun, or any part of an explosive
            device or weapon (as the case may be) is in the person’s
            possession;

       (b) other major parts of the gun, or any other parts of an
            explosive device or weapon (as the case may be) are in the
            possession of another person or persons;

       (c) at least one of the other persons is in possession of —

               (i) the other major part or major parts of the gun; or

              (ii) the other part or parts of the explosive device or
                   weapon, as the case may be,

       (c) for an agreed purpose with the person; and

       (d) those parts would make up the gun, explosive device or
            weapon (as the case may be) if fitted together,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
   GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     29

and each of the persons is taken to be possessing the gun, explosive
device or weapon, as the case may be.

 (3) However, for the purposes of any proceedings for an offence
under this Act, a person is not taken to have possession of a gun, a
major part of a gun or a gun accessory, an explosive or explosive
precursor, or a weapon or noxious substance just because the gun,
major part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive or explosive precursor,
weapon or noxious substance (as the case may be) is at a place or
premises owned, leased or occupied by the person if the court is
satisfied, on a balance of probabilities, that —

       (a) the person did not know and could not reasonably be
            expected to have known that the gun, major part of a gun,
            gun accessory, explosive or explosive precursor, weapon
            or noxious substance (as the case may be) is at the place or
            premises;

.  Illustration

     C buys an apartment from D. The apartment has newly installed false
   ceiling boards, which D represents to C is paid for by the apartment
   owner above as part of the settlement for damage from water leakage
   from the apartment above. C obtains confirmation from the apartment
   owner above of that settlement. D owns a gun but, before moving out, D
   hides it in a cavity in the false ceiling. C does not know that D hid the gun
   among the ceiling boards. C does not have possession of the gun because
   C does not know that the gun is among the ceiling boards.

   (b) someone else who is authorised to possess the gun, major
        part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive
        precursor, weapon or noxious substance —

          (i) is also at the place or premises; or

.  Illustration

      E is giving F a lift in her car to a sports complex that has an
   archery range. F is licensed and has his archery set comprising a
   long bow with him. E is not in possession of the long bow
   because F is authorised to possess the weapon and F is in the car.

   (ii) has the care, control or management of the gun,
        major part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive,
        explosive precursor, weapon or noxious substance;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
30  NO. 3 OF 2021

.   Illustration

       G and H share a house. H is licensed and stores his spear gun
    in the house in a cabinet to which only H has a key to. G does not
    have access to the spear gun or cabinet key and has nothing to do
    with the spear gun. G is not in possession of the spear gun even
    when H, the person authorised to possess the spear gun, is not at
    the house, because H is the person who has the care, control or
    management of the spear gun.

       (c) someone else who is not authorised to possess the gun,
            major part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive
            precursor, weapon or noxious substance (as the case may
            be) has the care, control or management of the gun, major
            part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive
            precursor, weapon or noxious substance; or

       (d) on the evidence, the person was otherwise not in
            possession of the gun, major part of a gun, gun
            accessory, explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or
            noxious substance, as the case may be.

 (4) In addition to subsection (3), for the purposes of any
proceedings for an offence under this Act, a person is not taken to
have possession of a gun, a major part of a gun or a gun accessory, an
explosive or explosive precursor, or a weapon or noxious substance
just because the gun, major part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive,
explosive precursor, weapon or noxious substance (as the case may
be) is in a container owned by the person if the court is satisfied, on a
balance of probabilities, that —

       (a) the person did not know and could not reasonably be
            expected to have known that the gun, major part of a gun,
            gun accessory, explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or
            noxious substance (as the case may be) is in the container;

       (b) someone else has the care, control or management of the
            gun, major part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive,
            explosive precursor, weapon or noxious substance; or

       (c) on the evidence, the person was otherwise not in
            possession of the gun, major part of a gun, gun

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     31

            accessory, explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or
            noxious substance, as the case may be.

 (5) In addition to subsections (3) and (4), for the purposes of any
proceedings for an offence under this Act, a person is not taken to
have possession of a gun, a major part of a gun or a gun accessory, an
explosive or explosive precursor, or a weapon or noxious substance
just because the gun, major part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive or
explosive precursor, weapon or noxious substance (as the case may
be) is in, on or fitted to a vehicle, vessel, an aircraft or other device
driven, flown or otherwise operated (even by remote control) by the
person if the court is satisfied, on a balance of probabilities, that —

       (a) the person did not know and could not reasonably be
            expected to have known that the gun, major part of a gun,
            gun accessory, explosive or explosive precursor, weapon
            or noxious substance (as the case may be) is in, on or fitted
            to the vehicle, vessel, aircraft or other device;

       (b) someone else has the care, control or management of the
            gun, major part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive,
            explosive precursor, weapon or noxious substance; or

       (c) on the evidence, the person was otherwise not in
            possession of the gun, major part of a gun, gun
            accessory, explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or
            noxious substance, as the case may be.

 (6) A defendant to a prosecution for an offence under this Act who
wishes to rely on a matter mentioned in subsection (3), (4) or (5) has
the evidential burden in relation to the matter.

 (7) For the purposes of this Act, a gun, a major part of a gun or a gun
accessory, an explosive or explosive precursor, or a weapon or
noxious substance owned by the Government and for which a head of
a department or division in a Ministry or an Organ of State is
responsible, is taken to be owned by the Government.

 (8) To determine whether a person has the care, control or
management of a gun, a major part of a gun or a gun accessory, an
explosive or explosive precursor, or a weapon or noxious substance,
for the purposes of this Act, each of the following must be considered:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
32  NO. 3 OF 2021

       (a) whether the person knows about the gun, major part of a
            gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive precursor,
            weapon or noxious substance;

       (b) whether the person can use or transfer the gun, major part
            of a gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive precursor,
            weapon or noxious substance;

       (c) whether the person can control or prevent someone else
            from using or having physical possession of the gun, major
            part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive
            precursor, weapon or noxious substance.

Meaning of “manufacture” and associated terms

 6.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,
“manufacture” —

       (a) in relation to a gun, includes any of the following:

               (i) the assembling of a gun from parts of a gun
                   (but excludes repair);

              (ii) the testing of the assembled object or thing as a gun;

       (b) in relation to a major part of a gun, or a gun accessory,
            includes any of the following:

               (i) the assembling of a major part of a gun or a gun
                   accessory from parts of that major part of a gun or
                   that gun accessory (but excludes repair);

              (ii) the testing of the assembled object or thing as a major
                   part of a gun or as a gun accessory, as the case may
                   be;

       (c) in relation to any explosive, includes any of the following:

               (i) the blending together of any substances to make the
                   explosive;

              (ii) the altering of the chemical or physical nature of any
                   substance or any object or thing to make the
                   explosive;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     33

             (iii) the breaking up, sorting out or unmaking of the
                   explosive;

             (iv) the remaking, reconditioning or altering of the
                   explosive to produce an explosive effect other than
                   that for which the particular explosive was designed;

              (v) the filling of cartridge cases with projectiles or fitting
                   of primers to cartridge cases;

       (d) in relation to an explosive precursor or a noxious
            substance, includes any of the following:

               (i) the blending together of any substances to make the
                   explosive precursor or noxious substance, as the case
                   may be;

              (ii) the altering of the chemical or physical nature of any
                   substance to make the explosive precursor or
                   noxious substance, as the case may be;

             (iii) the remaking or reconditioning of the explosive
                   precursor or noxious substance, as the case may be;

             (iv) the possessing of any object or thing for any purpose
                   in sub‑paragraph (i), (ii) or (iii).

 (2) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, “repair” of a
gun or gun accessory, an explosive device or a weapon includes —

       (a) the altering or modifying of the gun, gun accessory,
            explosive device or weapon, whether or not to rectify any
            damage to it or to return the gun, gun accessory, explosive
            device or weapon (as the case may be) to its original
            operable condition;

       (b) the testing of the gun, gun accessory, explosive device or
            weapon (as the case may be) with a view to assessing the
            operability of that gun, gun accessory, explosive device or
            weapon as repaired, being repaired or to be repaired; and

       (c) the possessing of any part of a gun, gun accessory,
            explosive device or weapon (as the case may be) for the
            purpose of any activity in paragraph (a) or testing in
            paragraph (b).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
34  NO. 3 OF 2021

 (3) For the purposes of this Act, a person takes part in the
manufacture of a gun, a major part of a gun or a gun accessory, an
explosive or explosive precursor or a weapon or noxious substance,
or the repair of a gun, gun accessory, an explosive or a weapon, if the
person —

       (a) takes, or takes part in, a step, or causes a step to be taken, in
            the process of —

               (i) the manufacture of the gun, major part of a gun or
                   gun accessory, explosive or explosive precursor or
                   weapon or noxious substance; or

              (ii) the repair of a gun or gun accessory, an explosive or a
                   weapon,

       (a) as the case may be; or

       (b) exercises control or direction over any step mentioned in
            paragraph (a)(i) or (ii), whichever is applicable.

 (4) However, despite subsection (3), a person is not treated as
taking part in —

       (a) the manufacture of a gun, a major part of a gun or a gun
            accessory, an explosive or explosive precursor, or a
            weapon or noxious substance; or

       (b) the repair of a gun or gun accessory, an explosive or a
            weapon,

by reason only that the person provided financing for any step taken
in the process of the manufacture or repair of the gun, major part of a
gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or
noxious substance, as the case may be.

 (5) Unless otherwise expressly provided, where a person —

       (a) is granted a licence —

               (i) to manufacture a gun, a major part of a gun or a gun
                   accessory, an explosive or explosive precursor, or a
                   weapon or noxious substance; or

              (ii) to repair a gun or gun accessory, an explosive or a
                   weapon; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     35

       (b) is a class licensee authorised under a class licence —

               (i) to manufacture a gun, a major part of a gun or a gun
                   accessory, an explosive or explosive precursor, or a
                   weapon or noxious substance; or

              (ii) to repair a gun or gun accessory, an explosive or a
                   weapon,

the person must be treated as also granted a licence, or also a class
licensee authorised under a class licence, as the case may be, to use or
possess that gun, major part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive,
explosive precursor, weapon or noxious substance (as the case may
be) for the purpose of manufacture or repair.

Meaning of “supply” and associated terms

 7.—(1) In this Act, “supply” includes carrying on any of the
following activities, or a combination of those activities, in relation to
any object or thing in Singapore, and whether or not the object or
thing is to remain in Singapore:

       (a) selling or agreeing to sell, including for the purpose of
            resale;

       (b) bartering or exchanging;

       (c) offering for sale, barter or exchange or attempting to sell,
            barter or exchange;

       (d) displaying or exhibiting for sale, barter or exchange;

       (e) inviting the making of offers to acquire the object or thing,
            or otherwise advertising for sale, barter or exchange;

        (f) having in possession for sale, barter or exchange;

       (g) transferring possession to an agent for sale on
            consignment;

       (h) offering as a prize or reward;

        (i) offering or giving away for the purpose of advertisement or
            in furtherance of any trade or business;

        (j) conducting negotiations for sale, barter or exchange of the
            object or thing;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
36  NO. 3 OF 2021

       (k) selling, bartering or exchanging anything of which the
            object or thing forms a part;

        (l) doing any of the above as an agent or a broker, or by an
            agent or a broker.

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a person takes part in the supply of
any object or thing if the person takes, or participates in, any step, or
causes any step to be taken, in the process of that supply.

 (3) However, despite subsection (2), a person is not treated as
taking part in the supply of any object or thing by reason only that the
person provided financing for any step taken in the process of the
supply of the object or thing.

 (4) In this section, “sale” means sale by wholesale or retail, and
whether by tender, auction or otherwise.

 (5) Unless otherwise expressly provided, where a person —

       (a) is granted a licence to supply a gun, a major part of a gun or
            a gun accessory, an explosive or explosive precursor, or a
            weapon or noxious substance; or

       (b) is a class licensee authorised under a class licence to supply
            a gun, a major part of a gun or a gun accessory, an
            explosive or explosive precursor or a weapon or noxious
            substance,

the person must be treated as also granted a licence, or also a class
licensee authorised under a class licence, as the case may be, to
possess that gun, major part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive,
explosive precursor, weapon or noxious substance (as the case may
be) for the purpose of supply.

Meanings of “acquire”, “transfer” and associated terms

 8.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “acquire”, in relation to an object or a thing, means —

              (a) to buy (by wholesale or retail) the object or thing; or

              (b) to accept or receive a supply or transfer of the object
                   or thing;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     37

      “transfer” means to transfer ownership or possession, by gift,
         lending or supply.

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a person takes part in the
acquisition or transfer of an object or a thing if the person takes, or
participates in, any step, or causes any step to be taken, in the process
of that acquisition or transfer, as the case may be.

 (3) For the purposes of this Act, a person who takes possession of
an object or a thing under a hire‑purchase agreement is taken to have
acquired the object or thing, and the person who possessed the object
or thing immediately before parting with possession is taken to have
supplied it.

 (4) Despite subsection (2) but subject to subsection (3), a person is
not treated as taking part in the acquisition or transfer of any object or
thing by reason only that the person provided financing for any step
taken in the process of acquiring or transferring the object or thing.

Meanings of “convey”, “import” and “export” and associated
terms

 9. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “carrier” means any person who conveys objects or things,
         whether on the person’s own behalf or on behalf of another
         person, and excludes the driver of a vehicle, the master or
         pilot of a vessel or an aircraft or other individual operating or
         in control of a conveyance carrying the object or thing unless
         no other person is a carrier of that object or thing;

      “convey” means carriage as a carrier on any conveyance
         (whether or not in the course of a business) for a journey
         wholly within Singapore and includes any operation
         incidental to the whole course of carriage, such as loading,
         unloading and storage in transit;

      “conveyance” includes any aircraft, train, vehicle, vessel or
         other mode of transport of passengers or goods;

      “export”, in relation to any object or thing, means to take or
         cause to be taken out of Singapore by any means and includes
         to place goods in any form of conveyance for the purpose of

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
38  NO. 3 OF 2021

         taking the goods out of Singapore to any place outside
         Singapore;

      “import”, in relation to any object or thing, means to bring or
         cause to be brought into Singapore by any means from any
         place outside Singapore.

Purposes of Act

 10. The purposes of this Act are —

       (a) to prohibit the possession, handling and use of guns, major
            parts of a gun, gun accessories, explosives, explosive
            precursors, weapons and noxious substances except in
            special circumstances because any possession, handling
            and use of any of these objects or things is a privilege that
            is conditional on the overriding need to ensure public
            safety;

       (b) to ensure public safety —

               (i) by imposing strict controls on the possession,
                   handling and use of guns, major parts of a gun,
                   gun accessories, explosives, explosive precursors,
                   weapons and noxious substances; and

              (ii) by promoting the safe, secure and responsible
                   carrying on of regulated activities involving guns,
                   major parts of a gun, gun accessories, explosives,
                   explosive precursors, weapons and noxious
                   substances;

       (c) to confirm that persons authorised to carry on any
            regulated activity have a responsibility to act in the
            interests of personal and public safety; and

       (d) to implement Singapore’s obligations under the
            MARPLEX Convention and any other international
            convention, agreement, or understanding relating to
            handling of guns and explosives to which Singapore is a
            party.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     39

                                    PART 2

                                  OFFENCES

                Division 1 — Guns and gun accessories

Unauthorised possession or use of guns, etc.

 11.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person stores or otherwise possesses a gun, a major part
            of a gun, or a gun accessory at any place; and

       (b) the person is not one of the following:

               (i) a person granted a licence to store or possess that
                   gun, major part of a gun or gun accessory at that
                   place;

              (ii) a class licensee authorised under a class licence to
                   store or possess that gun, major part of a gun or gun
                   accessory at that place;

             (iii) a person exempt from this subsection under
                   section 87, 88 or 89 in relation to the storage or
                   possession of that gun, major part of a gun or gun
                   accessory at that place.

 (2) An individual commits an offence if the individual uses a gun
when he or she is not one of the following:

       (a) a person granted a licence to use that gun;

       (b) a class licensee authorised under a class licence to use that
            gun;

       (c) a person exempt from this subsection under section 87, 88
            or 89 in relation to the use of that gun.

 (3) To avoid doubt, subsection (1)(a) or (2) applies to a person
regardless that the gun, major part of a gun or gun accessory
concerned was stored or used other than in the course of carrying on a
business.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
40  NO. 3 OF 2021

Unauthorised manufacture, etc., of guns, etc.

 12.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person manufactures or takes part in the manufacture
            of, or disposes of, any object or thing;

       (b) the object or thing is a gun, a major part of a gun, or a gun
            accessory;

       (c) the person knows that or is reckless as to whether the object
            or thing is a gun, a major part of a gun, or a gun accessory;
            and

       (d) the person is not one of the following:

               (i) a person granted a licence to manufacture or dispose
                   (as the case may be) the gun, major part of a gun or
                   gun accessory;

              (ii) a class licensee authorised under a class licence to
                   manufacture or dispose (as the case may be) the gun,
                   major part of a gun or gun accessory;

             (iii) a person exempt from this section under section 87,
                   88 or 89 in relation to the manufacture or disposal of
                   (as the case may be) the gun, major part of a gun or
                   gun accessory.

 (2) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person repairs or takes part in the repair of any object or
            thing;

       (b) the object or thing is a gun or a gun accessory;

       (c) the person knows that or is reckless as to whether the object
            or thing is a gun or a gun accessory; and

       (d) the person is not one of the following:

               (i) a person granted a licence to repair the gun or gun
                   accessory;

              (ii) a class licensee authorised under a class licence to
                   repair the gun or gun accessory;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     41

             (iii) a person exempt from this section under section 87,
                   88 or 89 in relation to the repair of the gun or gun
                   accessory.

 (3) To avoid doubt, subsections (1) and (2) apply to a person
regardless that the gun, major part of a gun or gun accessory
concerned was manufactured, disposed of or repaired other than in
the course of carrying on a business.

Unauthorised possession of digital blueprints for manufacture
of guns, etc.

 13.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person possesses a digital blueprint for the manufacture
            of a gun or a major part of a gun on a 3D printer or on an
            electronic milling machine; and

       (b) the person is not one of the following:

               (i) a person granted a licence to manufacture the gun or
                   major part of a gun using a 3D printer or on an
                   electronic milling machine;

              (ii) a person exempt from this section under section 87,
                   88 or 89 in relation to that manufacture of the gun or
                   major part of a gun.

 (2) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is a
defence for the accused to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that —

       (a) the accused did not know, and could not reasonably be
            expected to have known, that the accused possessed the
            digital blueprint concerned;

       (b) the digital blueprint concerned came into the accused’s
            possession unsolicited and the accused, as soon as the
            accused became aware of its nature, took reasonable steps
            to destroy or otherwise surrender it to a police officer or a
            person designated by a Licensing Officer for the purpose of
            this paragraph; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
42  NO. 3 OF 2021

       (c) the conduct engaged in by the accused —

               (i) was necessary for or of assistance in conducting
                   scientific, medical, educational, military or law
                   enforcement research that has been specially
                   approved by the Minister in writing for the
                   purposes of this section; and

              (ii) did not breach the conditions of that approval.

 (3) In this section —

      “digital blueprint” means any type of digital (or electronic)
         reproduction of a technical drawing of the design of an
         object;

      “possession”, of a digital blueprint, includes the following:

              (a) possession of a computer or data storage device
                   holding or containing the blueprint or of a document
                   in which the blueprint is recorded;

              (b) control of the blueprint held in a computer that is in
                   the possession of another person in Singapore
                   (whether the computer is in or outside Singapore).

Unauthorised trade in guns, etc.

 14. A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person —

               (i) imports or exports an object or a thing; or

              (ii) takes part in any activity in sub‑paragraph (i) in
                   relation to an object or a thing;

       (b) the object or thing is a gun, a major part of a gun, or a gun
            accessory;

       (c) the person knows that, or is reckless as to whether, the
            object or thing is a gun, a major part of a gun, or a gun
            accessory; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     43

       (d) the person is not one of the following:

               (i) a person granted a licence to import or export that
                   gun, major part of a gun or gun accessory;

              (ii) a class licensee authorised under a class licence to
                   import or export that gun, major part of a gun or gun
                   accessory;

             (iii) a person exempt from this section under section 87,
                   88 or 89 in relation to the import or export of that
                   gun, major part of a gun or gun accessory.

Unauthorised supply or conveyance of guns, etc.

 15.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person supplies or conveys any object or thing, or takes
            part in the supply of any object or thing;

       (b) the object or thing is a gun, a major part of a gun, or a gun
            accessory;

       (c) the person knows that, or is reckless as to whether, the
            object or thing is a gun, a major part of a gun, or a gun
            accessory; and

       (d) the person is not one of the following:

               (i) a person granted a licence to supply or convey the
                   gun, major part of a gun or gun accessory;

              (ii) a class licensee authorised under a class licence to
                   supply or convey the gun, major part of a gun or gun
                   accessory;

             (iii) a person exempt from this section under section 87,
                   88 or 89 in relation to supplying or conveying the
                   gun, major part of a gun or gun accessory.

 (2) To avoid doubt, subsection (1) applies to a person regardless
that the gun, major part of a gun, or gun accessory concerned was
supplied or conveyed other than in the course of carrying on a
business.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
44  NO. 3 OF 2021

Unauthorised acquisition of guns, etc.

 16.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person acquires, or
takes part in the acquisition of, a gun, a major part of a gun, or a gun
accessory from another and the person acquiring —

       (a) is not one of the following:

               (i) a person granted a licence to use, store or possess that
                   gun, major part of a gun or gun accessory;

              (ii) a class licensee authorised under a class licence to
                   use, store or possess that gun, major part of a gun or
                   gun accessory;

             (iii) a person exempt from this section under section 87,
                   88 or 89 in relation to the use, storage or possession
                   of that gun, major part of a gun or gun accessory; or

       (b) is doing so in contravention of any condition of the
            person’s licence or class licence to use, store or possess that
            gun, major part of a gun or gun accessory.

 (2) Strict liability applies to subsection (1)(b).

 (3) A person commits an offence if the person acquires, or takes
part in the acquisition of, a gun, a major part of a gun, or a gun
accessory from another (called in this section the supplier) and —

       (a) the supplier —

               (i) is not one of the following:

                    (A) a person granted a licence to supply that gun,
                          major part of a gun or gun accessory;

                     (B) a class licensee authorised under a class licence
                          to supply that gun, major part of a gun or gun
                          accessory;

                     (C) a person exempt from this section under
                          section 87, 88 or 89 in relation to the supply
                          of that gun, major part of a gun or gun
                          accessory; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     45

              (ii) is supplying the gun, major part of a gun or gun
                   accessory (as the case may be) in contravention of
                   any condition of the supplier’s licence or class
                   licence to supply that gun, major part of a gun or gun
                   accessory; and

       (b) the person knows that, or is reckless as to whether, the
            supplier —

               (i) is not any of the persons in paragraph (a)(i); or

              (ii) is supplying the gun, major part of a gun or gun
                   accessory in contravention of any condition of the
                   supplier’s licence or class licence to supply that gun,
                   major part of a gun or gun accessory.

Penalties for offences for unlicensed regulated activities
involving guns, etc.

 17.—(1) A person who is guilty of an offence under section 11(1) or
(2), 12(1) or (2), 14, 15(1) or 16(1) or (3) shall be punished on
conviction with —

       (a) if a prohibited gun is involved —

               (i) where the person is an individual — imprisonment
                   for a term not exceeding 5 years and a fine as
                   follows, whichever is applicable:

                    (A) not exceeding $10,000 for each fully
                          assembled prohibited gun involved or
                          $100,000 in total, whichever is the lower;

                     (B) not exceeding $100,000; or

              (ii) where the person is not an individual — a fine as
                   follows, whichever is applicable:

                    (A) not exceeding $10,000 for each fully
                          assembled prohibited gun involved or
                          $200,000 in total, whichever is the lower;

                     (B) not exceeding $200,000;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
46  NO. 3 OF 2021

    (b) if a gun other than a prohibited gun is involved —

           (i) where the person is an individual — imprisonment
                for a term not exceeding 36 months and a fine as
                follows, whichever is applicable:

                 (A) not exceeding $5,000 for each fully assembled
                       gun involved or $50,000 in total, whichever is
                       the lower;

                 (B) not exceeding $50,000; or

          (ii) where the person is not an individual — a fine as
                follows, whichever is applicable:

                 (A) not exceeding $5,000 for each fully assembled
                       gun involved or $100,000 in total, whichever is
                       the lower;

                 (B) not exceeding $100,000;

    (c) if a major part of a prohibited gun is involved —

           (i) where the person is an individual — imprisonment
                for a term not exceeding 5 years and a fine not
                exceeding $100,000; or

          (ii) where the person is not an individual — a fine not
                exceeding $200,000;

    (d) if a major part of a gun other than a prohibited gun is
         involved —

           (i) where the person is an individual — imprisonment
                for a term not exceeding 36 months and a fine not
                exceeding $50,000; or

          (ii) where the person is not an individual — a fine not
                exceeding $100,000;

    (e) if a prohibited gun accessory is involved —

           (i) where the person is an individual — imprisonment
                for a term not exceeding 36 months and a fine not
                exceeding $40,000; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     47

              (ii) where the person is not an individual — a fine not
                   exceeding $80,000; or

        (f) if any other gun accessory is involved —

               (i) where the person is an individual — imprisonment
                   for a term not exceeding 24 months and a fine not
                   exceeding $20,000; or

              (ii) where the person is not an individual — a fine not
                   exceeding $40,000.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under section 13(1) shall be
liable on conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment
                   for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $25,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 18 months or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $25,000; but

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                   exceeding $50,000.

Breach of gun, etc., licence conditions

 18.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person —

               (i) is granted a licence to carry out a regulated activity
                   involving a gun, a major part of a gun, or a gun
                   accessory; or

              (ii) is a class licensee authorised under a class licence to
                   carry out a regulated activity involving a gun, a
                   major part of a gun or a gun accessory; and

       (b) the person carries on, when the licence or class licence
            (as the case may be) is in force, the regulated activity

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
48  NO. 3 OF 2021

            involving a gun, a major part of a gun or a gun accessory in
            contravention of any condition of the person’s licence or
            class licence.

 (2) Strict liability applies to subsection (1)(b).

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual and the offence involves
            any gun or major part of a gun —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment
                   for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $25,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 18 months or to both;

       (b) where the person is not an individual and the offence
            involves any gun or major part of a gun —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $25,000; but

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                   exceeding $50,000;

       (c) where the person is an individual and the offence involves
            any gun accessory —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for
                   a term not exceeding 6 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 12 months or to both; or

       (d) where the person is not an individual and the offence
            involves any gun accessory —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $10,000; but

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                   exceeding $20,000.

 (4) For the purpose of the reference in subsection (3) to “repeat
offender” in relation to an offence under subsection (1), an offence

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     49

under section 13(3) or (4) of the Arms and Explosives Act (Cap. 13)
repealed by this Act, and involving any gun or major part of a gun or
any arms that is not a weapon, is a countable offence in respect of an
offence under subsection (1).

Unauthorised shooting range or paintball range operations

 19.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person carries on business as a shooting range operator
            or paintball range operator; and

       (b) the person is not one of the following:

               (i) a person granted a licence to carry on business as a
                   shooting range operator or paintball range operator;

              (ii) a class licensee authorised under a class licence to
                   carry on business as a shooting range operator or
                   paintball range operator;

             (iii) a person exempt from this section under section 87,
                   88 or 89 in relation to carrying on business as a
                   shooting range operator or paintball range operator.

 (2) A person who is granted a licence or is a class licensee
authorised under a class licence, to carry on business as a shooting
range operator or paintball range operator commits an offence if —

       (a) the person carries on the business at any place or premises
            that —

               (i) is not an approved shooting range or approved
                   paintball range; or

              (ii) is not specified in its licence or class licence; and

       (b) the person knows that, or is reckless as to whether, the
            place or premises is not an approved shooting range or
            approved paintball range and is not specified in its licence
            or class licence.

 (3) A person who is granted a licence or is a class licensee
authorised under a class licence, to carry on business as a shooting
range operator or paintball range operator commits an offence if the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
50  NO. 3 OF 2021

person carries on the business in contravention of any condition of the
person’s licence or class licence, as the case may be.

 (4) Strict liability applies to subsections (1) and (3).

 (5) In this section, “approved shooting range” and “approved
paintball range” mean a shooting range and a paintball range,
respectively, that is approved by a Licensing Officer as prescribed by
Regulations.

Penalties for offences for unauthorised shooting ranges, etc.

 20.—(1) A person who is guilty of an offence under section 19(1)
or (2) shall be punished on conviction with —

       (a) where the person is an individual — imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 36 months and a fine not exceeding
            $50,000; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual — a fine not
            exceeding $100,000.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under section 19(3) shall be
liable on conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment
                   for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $25,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 18 months or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $25,000; but

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                   exceeding $50,000.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     51

          Division 2 — Explosives and explosive precursors

Unauthorised use of explosive or explosive precursor

 21.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person uses an explosive or explosive precursor; and

       (b) the person is not one of the following:

               (i) a person granted a licence to use that explosive or
                   explosive precursor;

              (ii) a class licensee authorised under a class licence to
                   use that explosive or explosive precursor;

             (iii) a person exempt from this section under section 87,
                   88 or 89 in relation to the use of that explosive or
                   explosive precursor.

 (2) To avoid doubt, subsection (1)(a) applies to a person regardless
that the explosive or explosive precursor concerned was used other
than in the course of carrying on a business.

Unauthorised possession of explosive or explosive precursor

 22.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person stores or otherwise has possession of an object
            or a thing;

       (b) the object or thing is an explosive or explosive precursor;
            and

       (c) the storage or possession of that object or thing is not
            authorised under subsection (2).

 (2) The storage or possession by a person of an explosive or
explosive precursor is authorised if —

       (a) for an unmarked plastic explosive —

               (i) the storage or possession —

                    (A) is under a licence granted to the person to store
                          or possess the unmarked plastic explosive; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
52  NO. 3 OF 2021

                     (B) is in a quantity no greater than that necessary
                          for the purpose of, and is solely for, any
                          MARPLEX Convention excepted use; or

              (ii) the unmarked plastic explosive is an integral part of
                   an explosive device that was manufactured
                   exclusively for defence purposes of an authorised
                   military or police personnel or a member of a visiting
                   force lawfully present in Singapore, and the
                   explosive device is for use exclusively for the
                   defence purposes of that authorised military or
                   police personnel or member of a visiting force
                   lawfully present in Singapore; or

       (b) for any other explosive or explosive precursor, the
            person —

               (i) is granted a licence, or is a class licensee authorised
                   under a class licence, to store or possess that
                   explosive or explosive precursor; or

              (ii) is exempt from this section under section 87, 88 or 89
                   in relation to the person if the explosive is not an
                   unmarked plastic explosive.

 (3) A person who is granted a licence to store an explosive or
explosive precursor commits an offence if —

       (a) the person stores the explosive or explosive precursor at
            any place that is not a place or premises approved by a
            Licensing Officer for the storage of that explosive or
            explosive precursor; and

       (b) the person knows that, or is reckless as to whether, the
            place or premises is not so approved under paragraph (a).

 (4) To avoid doubt, subsection (1)(a) applies to a person regardless
that the explosive or explosive precursor concerned was stored other
than in the course of carrying on a business.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     53

Unauthorised manufacture, etc., of explosives or explosive
precursors

 23.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person manufactures, or takes part in the manufacture
            of, or disposes of, an object or a thing;

       (b) the object or thing is an explosive or explosive precursor;

       (c) the person knows that or is reckless as to whether the object
            or thing is an explosive or explosive precursor; and

       (d) the manufacture or disposal of that object or thing is not
            authorised under subsection (2) or (3).

 (2) The manufacture by a person of an explosive or explosive
precursor is authorised if —

       (a) for an unmarked plastic explosive —

               (i) the manufacture —

                    (A) is under a licence granted to the person to
                          manufacture the unmarked plastic explosive;
                          and

                     (B) is in a quantity no greater than that necessary
                          for the purpose of, and is solely for, any
                          MARPLEX Convention excepted use; or

       (b) for any other explosive or explosive precursor, the
            person —

               (i) is granted a licence, or is a class licensee authorised
                   under a class licence, to manufacture that explosive
                   or explosive precursor; or

              (ii) is exempt from this section under section 87, 88 or 89
                   in relation to the person if the explosive is not an
                   unmarked plastic explosive.

 (3) The disposal by a person of an explosive or explosive precursor
is authorised if the disposal —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
54  NO. 3 OF 2021

       (a) is under a licence granted to the person, or a class licence
            applying to the person, to dispose of that explosive or
            explosive precursor; or

       (b) is exempt from this section under section 87, 88 or 89 in
            relation to the person.

 (4) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person repairs or takes part in the repair of any object or
            thing;

       (b) the object or thing is an explosive device;

       (c) the person knows that or is reckless as to whether that
            object or thing is an explosive device; and

       (d) the person is not one of the following:

               (i) a person granted a licence to repair the explosive
                   device;

              (ii) a class licensee authorised under a class licence to
                   repair the explosive device;

             (iii) a person exempt from this section under section 87,
                   88 or 89 in relation to the repair of the explosive
                   device.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (1) applies to a person regardless
that the explosive or explosive precursor concerned was
manufactured or disposed of other than in the course of carrying
on a business.

Unauthorised trade in explosives or explosive precursors

 24.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person —

               (i) imports or exports an object or a thing; or

              (ii) takes part in any activity in sub‑paragraph (i) in
                   relation to an object or a thing;

       (b) the object or thing is an explosive or explosive precursor;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     55

       (c) the person knows that, or is reckless as to whether, the
            object or thing is an explosive or explosive precursor; and

       (d) the import or export of that object or thing is not authorised
            under subsection (2).

 (2) The import or export by a person of an explosive or explosive
precursor is authorised if —

       (a) for an unmarked plastic explosive —

               (i) the import or export —

                    (A) is under a licence granted to the person to
                          import or export the unmarked plastic
                          explosive; and

                     (B) is in a quantity no greater than that necessary
                          for the purpose of, and is solely for, any
                          MARPLEX Convention excepted use; or

              (ii) the unmarked plastic explosive is an integral part of
                   an explosive device that was manufactured
                   exclusively for defence purposes of an authorised
                   military or police personnel or a member of a visiting
                   force lawfully present in Singapore, and the
                   explosive device is for use exclusively for the
                   defence purposes of that authorised military or
                   police personnel or member of a visiting force
                   lawfully present in Singapore; or

       (b) for any other explosive or explosive precursor, the
            person —

               (i) is granted a licence, or is a class licensee authorised
                   under a class licence, to import or export that
                   explosive or explosive precursor; or

              (ii) is exempt from this section under section 87, 88 or 89
                   in relation to the person if the explosive is not an
                   unmarked plastic explosive.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
56  NO. 3 OF 2021

Unauthorised supply or conveyance of explosives or explosive
precursors

 25.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person supplies or conveys any object or thing or takes
            part in the supply of any object or thing;

       (b) the object or thing is an explosive or explosive precursor;

       (c) the person knows that, or is reckless as to whether, the
            object or thing is an explosive or explosive precursor; and

       (d) the supply or conveyance of that object or thing is not
            authorised under subsection (2).

 (2) The supply or conveyance by a person of an explosive or
explosive precursor is authorised if —

       (a) for an unmarked plastic explosive —

               (i) the supply or conveyance —

                    (A) is under a licence granted to the person to
                          supply or convey the unmarked plastic
                          explosive;

                     (B) is in a quantity no greater than that necessary
                          for the purpose of, and is solely for, any
                          MARPLEX Convention excepted use; and

                     (C) is to an acquirer who is authorised (within the
                          meaning of section 26) to possess the
                          unmarked plastic explosive; or

              (ii) the unmarked plastic explosive is an integral part of
                   an explosive device that was manufactured
                   exclusively for defence purposes of an authorised
                   military or police personnel or a member of a visiting
                   force lawfully present in Singapore, and the
                   explosive device is for use exclusively for the
                   defence purposes of that authorised military or
                   police personnel or member of a visiting force
                   lawfully present in Singapore; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     57

       (b) for any other explosive or explosive precursor, the
            person —

               (i) is granted a licence, or is a class licensee authorised
                   under a class licence, to supply or convey that
                   explosive or explosive precursor; or

              (ii) is exempt from this section under section 87, 88 or 89
                   in relation to the person if the explosive is not an
                   unmarked plastic explosive.

Unauthorised acquisition of explosives or explosive precursors

 26.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person acquires, or
takes part in the acquisition of, an explosive or explosive precursor
from another and the person acquiring —

       (a) is not any of the following:

               (i) a person granted a licence to possess that explosive
                   or explosive precursor;

              (ii) a class licensee authorised under a class licence to
                   possess that explosive or explosive precursor;

             (iii) a person exempt from this section under section 87,
                   88 or 89 in relation to possession, import or export of
                   that explosive or explosive precursor; or

       (b) is doing so in contravention of any condition of the
            person’s licence or class licence to possess that explosive
            or explosive precursor.

 (2) A person commits an offence if the person acquires, or takes
part in the acquisition of, an explosive or explosive precursor from
another (called in this section the supplier) and —

       (a) the supplier —

               (i) is not any of the following:

                    (A) a person granted a licence to supply that
                          explosive or explosive precursor;

                     (B) a class licensee authorised under a class licence
                          to supply that explosive or explosive precursor;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
58  NO. 3 OF 2021

                     (C) a person exempt from this section under
                          section 87, 88 or 89 in relation to the supply
                          of that explosive or explosive precursor; or

              (ii) is supplying the explosive or explosive precursor in
                   contravention of any condition of the supplier’s
                   licence or class licence to supply that explosive or
                   explosive precursor; and

       (b) the person knows that, or is reckless as to whether, the
            supplier —

               (i) is not any of the persons in paragraph (a)(i)(A), (B)
                   or (C); or

              (ii) is supplying the explosive or explosive precursor in
                   contravention of any condition of the supplier’s
                   licence or class licence to supply that explosive or
                   explosive precursor.

 (3) Strict liability applies to subsection (1)(b).

Penalties for offences for unlicensed regulated activities
involving explosives, etc.

 27. A person who is guilty of an offence under section 21(1), 22(1)
or (3), 23(1) or (4), 24(1), 25(1) or 26(1) or (2) shall —

       (a) if a prohibited explosive is involved, be punished on
            conviction with —

               (i) where the person is an individual — imprisonment
                   for a term not exceeding 5 years and a fine not
                   exceeding $100,000; or

              (ii) in any other case — a fine not exceeding $200,000;

       (b) if an explosive other than a prohibited explosive is
            involved, be punished on conviction with —

               (i) where the person is an individual — imprisonment
                   for a term not exceeding 36 months and a fine not
                   exceeding $50,000; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     59

              (ii) in any other case — a fine not exceeding $100,000;
                   or

       (c) where an explosive precursor is involved, be liable on
            conviction —

               (i) where the person is an individual — to a fine not
                   exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
                   exceeding 24 months or to both; or

              (ii) in any other case — to a fine not exceeding
                   $100,000.

Breach of explosive, etc., licence conditions

 28.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person —

               (i) is granted a licence to carry on a regulated activity
                   involving an explosive or explosive precursor; or

              (ii) is a class licensee authorised under a class licence to
                   carry on a regulated activity involving an explosive
                   or explosive precursor; and

       (b) the person carries on, when the licence or class licence
            (as the case may be) is in force, the regulated activity
            involving an explosive or explosive precursor in
            contravention of any condition of the person’s licence or
            class licence.

 (2) Strict liability applies to subsection (1)(b).

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment
                   for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $25,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 18 months or to both; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
60  NO. 3 OF 2021

       (b) where the person is not an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $25,000; but

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                   exceeding $50,000.

 (4) For the purpose of the reference in subsection (3) to “repeat
offender” in relation to an offence under subsection (1), an offence
under section 5(2), 6(3), 13(4), 21A(2) or 21D(2) of the Arms and
Explosives Act repealed by this Act and involving an unmarked
plastic explosive, explosive or explosive precursor, is a countable
offence in respect of an offence under subsection (1).

            Division 3 — Weapons and noxious substances

Unauthorised possession of weapons and noxious substances

 29.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person possesses a weapon or noxious substance at any
            place or premises; and

       (b) the person is not one of the following:

               (i) a person granted a licence to possess that weapon or
                   noxious substance at that place or premises;

              (ii) a class licensee authorised under a class licence to
                   possess that weapon or noxious substance at that
                   place or premises;

             (iii) a person exempt from this section under section 87,
                   88 or 89 in relation to the possession of that weapon
                   or noxious substance at that place or premises.

 (2) To avoid doubt, subsection (1)(a) applies to a person regardless
that the weapon or noxious substance concerned was in the person’s
possession other than in the course of carrying on a business.

Unauthorised manufacture, etc., of weapons

 30.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person manufactures or takes part in the manufacture,
            or disposes of, any object or thing;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     61

       (b) the object or thing is a weapon or noxious substance;

       (c) the person knows that or is reckless as to whether the object
            or thing is a weapon or noxious substance; and

       (d) the person is not one of the following:

               (i) a person granted a licence to manufacture or dispose
                   of the weapon or noxious substance;

              (ii) a class licensee authorised under a class licence to
                   manufacture or dispose of the weapon or noxious
                   substance;

             (iii) a person exempt from this section under section 87,
                   88 or 89 in relation to the manufacture or disposal of
                   the weapon or noxious substance.

 (2) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person repairs or takes part in the repair of any object or
            thing;

       (b) the object or thing is a weapon;

       (c) the person knows that or is reckless as to whether the object
            or thing is a weapon; and

       (d) the person is not one of the following:

               (i) a person granted a licence to repair the weapon;

              (ii) a class licensee authorised under a class licence to
                   repair the weapon;

             (iii) a person exempt from this section under section 87,
                   88 or 89 in relation to the repair of the weapon.

 (3) To avoid doubt, subsections (1) and (2) apply to a person
regardless that the weapon or noxious substance concerned was
manufactured, disposed of or repaired other than in the course of
carrying on a business.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
62  NO. 3 OF 2021

Unauthorised trade in weapons or noxious substances

 31. A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person —

               (i) imports or exports an object or a thing; or

              (ii) takes part in any activity in sub‑paragraph (i) in
                   relation to an object or a thing;

       (b) the object or thing is a weapon or noxious substance;

       (c) the person knows that, or is reckless as to whether, the
            object or thing is a weapon or noxious substance; and

       (d) the person is not one of the following:

               (i) a person granted a licence to import or export that
                   weapon or noxious substance;

              (ii) a class licensee authorised under a class licence to
                   import or export that weapon or noxious substance;

             (iii) a person exempt from this section under section 87,
                   88 or 89 in relation to the import or export of that
                   weapon or noxious substance.

Unauthorised supply or conveyance of weapons or noxious
substances

 32.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person supplies or conveys a weapon or noxious
            substance; and

       (b) the person is not one of the following:

               (i) a person granted a licence to supply or convey the
                   weapon or noxious substance;

              (ii) a class licensee authorised under a class licence to
                   supply or convey the weapon or noxious substance;

             (iii) a person exempt from this section under section 87,
                   88 or 89 in relation to supplying or conveying the
                   weapon or noxious substance.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     63

 (2) To avoid doubt, subsection (1) applies to a person regardless
that the weapon or noxious substance concerned was supplied or
conveyed other than in the course of carrying on a business.

Unauthorised acquisition of weapon or noxious substance

 33.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person acquires, or
takes part in the acquisition of, a weapon or noxious substance from
another and the person acquiring —

       (a) is not any of the following:

               (i) a person granted a licence to possess that weapon or
                   noxious substance;

              (ii) a class licensee authorised under a class licence to
                   possess that weapon or noxious substance;

             (iii) a person exempt from this section under section 87,
                   88 or 89 in relation to possession of that weapon or
                   noxious substance; or

       (b) is doing so in contravention of any condition of the
            person’s licence or class licence to possess that weapon or
            noxious substance.

 (2) Strict liability applies to subsection (1)(b).

 (3) A person commits an offence if the person acquires, or takes
part in the acquisition of, a weapon or noxious substance from
another (called in this section the supplier) and —

       (a) the supplier —

               (i) is not any of the following:

                    (A) a person granted a licence to supply that
                          weapon or noxious substance;

                     (B) a class licensee authorised under a class licence
                          to supply that weapon or noxious substance;

                     (C) a person exempt from this section under
                          section 87, 88 or 89 in relation to the supply
                          of that weapon or noxious substance; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
64  NO. 3 OF 2021

              (ii) is supplying the weapon or noxious substance (as the
                   case may be) in contravention of any condition of the
                   supplier’s licence or class licence to supply that
                   weapon or noxious substance; and

       (b) the person knows that, or is reckless as to whether, the
            supplier —

               (i) is not any of the persons in paragraph (a)(i)(A), (B)
                   or (C); or

              (ii) is supplying the weapon or noxious substance in
                   contravention of any condition of the supplier’s
                   licence or class licence to supply that weapon or
                   noxious substance.

Penalties for offences for unlicensed regulated activities
involving weapons or noxious substances

 34. A person who is guilty of an offence under section 29(1), 30(1)
or (2), 31, 32(1) or 33(1) or (3) shall on conviction be punished
with —

       (a) if a prohibited weapon is involved —

               (i) where the person is an individual — imprisonment
                   for a term not exceeding 36 months and a fine not
                   exceeding $40,000; or

              (ii) in any other case — a fine not exceeding $80,000; or

       (b) if a noxious substance or a weapon other than a prohibited
            weapon is involved —

               (i) where the person is an individual — imprisonment
                   for a term not exceeding 24 months and a fine not
                   exceeding $20,000; or

              (ii) in any other case — a fine not exceeding $40,000.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     65

Breach of weapon or noxious substance licence condition

 35.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person —

               (i) is granted a licence to carry on a regulated activity
                   involving a weapon or noxious substance; or

              (ii) is a class licensee authorised under a class licence to
                   carry on a regulated activity involving a weapon or
                   noxious substance; and

       (b) the person carries on, when the licence or class licence
            (as the case may be) is in force, the regulated activity in
            contravention of any condition of the person’s licence or
            class licence.

 (2) Strict liability applies to subsection (1)(b).

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for
                   a term not exceeding 6 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 12 months or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $10,000; but

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                   exceeding $20,000.

 (4) For the purpose of the reference in subsection (3) to “repeat
offender” in relation to an offence under subsection (1), an offence
under section 13(3) or (4) of the Arms and Explosives Act repealed
by this Act not involving a gun or an unmarked plastic explosive,
explosive or explosive precursor, is a countable offence in respect of
an offence under subsection (1).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
66  NO. 3 OF 2021

                        Division 4 — Other offences

Loss of guns and explosives, etc.

 36.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person —

       (a) possesses or stores a gun, a major part of a gun, or a gun
            accessory, an explosive or explosive precursor, or a
            weapon or noxious substance; and

       (b) fails to take all reasonable steps to ensure each of the
            following:

               (i) the gun, major part of a gun, gun accessory,
                   explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or noxious
                   substance (as the case may be) is kept or stored safely
                   in the prescribed manner;

              (ii) the gun, major part of a gun, gun accessory,
                   explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or noxious
                   substance (as the case may be) is not lost or stolen;

             (iii) the gun, major part of a gun, gun accessory,
                   explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or noxious
                   substance (as the case may be) does not come into the
                   possession of someone who is not authorised to
                   possess the gun, major part of a gun, gun accessory,
                   explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or noxious
                   substance.

 (2) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person possesses or stores a gun, a major part of a gun,
            or a gun accessory, an explosive or explosive precursor, or
            a weapon or noxious substance;

       (b) the gun, major part of a gun or gun accessory, explosive,
            explosive precursor, weapon or noxious substance (as the
            case may be) is lost, stolen or destroyed;

       (c) the person knows about the loss, theft or destruction; and

       (d) the person fails, without delay after the day the person
            becomes aware of the loss, theft or destruction, to —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     67

               (i) tell the Licensing Officer about the loss, theft or
                   destruction; and

              (ii) give the Licensing Officer particulars of the loss,
                   theft or destruction (if any) prescribed by the
                   Regulations.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) or (2)
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (4) A police officer may, without warrant, seize any gun, major part
of a gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or
noxious substance that the police officer has reasonable grounds to
believe is not being kept or stored in accordance with subsection (1).

Misuse of licence

 37.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person —

       (a) with intent to deceive —

               (i) adds to a licence any words or figures extraneous to
                   the licence as granted;

              (ii) alters on or erases from any licence any words or
                   figures; or

             (iii) uses or retains any licence —

                    (A) to which have been added any words or figures
                          extraneous to the licence as granted;

                     (B) from which any words or figures have been
                          erased from the licence as granted; or

                     (C) on which any words or figures on the licence as
                          granted have been altered;

       (b) being the person to whom a licence is granted, wilfully
            parts with possession of that licence in order that it may be
            used by another person; or

       (c) uses or attempts to use a licence granted to another person
            with the intention of procuring the possession of any gun,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
68  NO. 3 OF 2021

            major part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive
            precursor, weapon or noxious substance.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 36 months or to both.

Unauthorised transfer of guns, explosives, etc.

 38.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person —

       (a) transfers, or takes part in the transfer of, a gun, a major part
            of a gun, or a gun accessory, an explosive or explosive
            precursor, or a weapon or noxious substance, to another
            (called in this section the acquirer); and

       (b) intentionally or negligently does not do any of the
            following before transferring the gun, major part of a
            gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive precursor,
            weapon or noxious substance:

               (i) request the acquirer to show to the person the
                   acquirer’s licence to possess or use the gun, major
                   part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive
                   precursor, weapon or noxious substance (as the case
                   may be) and inspect the licence;

              (ii) request the acquirer to show that the acquirer is a
                   class licensee authorised under a class licence to
                   possess or use that gun, major part of a gun, gun
                   accessory, explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or
                   noxious substance.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)
shall —

       (a) if a gun is involved, be punished with —

               (i) where the person is an individual — imprisonment
                   for a term not exceeding 36 months and a fine as
                   follows, whichever is applicable:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     69

             (A) not exceeding $5,000 for each fully assembled
                   gun involved or $50,000 in total, whichever is
                   the lower;

             (B) not exceeding $50,000; or

      (ii) where the person is not an individual — a fine as
            follows, whichever is applicable:

             (A) not exceeding $5,000 for each fully assembled
                   gun involved or $100,000 in total, whichever is
                   the lower;

             (B) not exceeding $100,000;

(b) if a major part of a gun is involved, be punished with —

       (i) where the person is an individual — imprisonment
            for a term not exceeding 36 months and a fine not
            exceeding $50,000; or

      (ii) where the person is not an individual — a fine not
            exceeding $100,000;

(c) if a gun accessory is involved, be punished with —

       (i) where the person is an individual — imprisonment
            for a term not exceeding 24 months and a fine not
            exceeding $20,000; or

      (ii) where the person is not an individual — a fine not
            exceeding $40,000;

(d) if an explosive is involved, be punished with —

       (i) where the person is an individual — imprisonment
            for a term not exceeding 36 months and a fine not
            exceeding $50,000; or

      (ii) in any other case — a fine not exceeding $100,000;

(e) if an explosive precursor is involved, be liable on
     conviction —

       (i) where the person is an individual — to a fine not
            exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 24 months or to both; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
70  NO. 3 OF 2021

              (ii) in any other case — to a fine not exceeding
                   $100,000; or

        (f) if a noxious substance or a weapon is involved, be
            punished with —

               (i) where the person is an individual — imprisonment
                   for a term not exceeding 24 months and a fine not
                   exceeding $20,000; or

              (ii) in any other case — a fine not exceeding $40,000.

 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to the surrender of a
gun, a major part of a gun or a gun accessory, an explosive or
explosive precursor, or a weapon or noxious substance, to a police
officer or in compliance with section 39.

Surrender of guns, etc., by unauthorised persons

 39.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person —

               (i) comes into possession of a gun, a major part of a gun,
                   or a gun accessory, an explosive or explosive
                   precursor, or a weapon or noxious substance but is
                   not authorised by or under this Act to use, store or
                   possess the gun, major part of a gun, gun accessory,
                   explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or noxious
                   substance, as the case may be; or

.   Illustration

       A person who has possession of the gun because of the death
    of the individual licensed to possess it, by inheritance or as
    estate administrator.

       A person who discovers in the course of excavating his land
    for building works unearths an undetonated bomb from the time
    of the Japanese Occupation of Singapore.

    (ii) continues in possession of a gun, a major part of a
         gun, or a gun accessory, an explosive or explosive
         precursor, or a weapon or noxious substance when
         the person stops being authorised under this Act to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     71

                   use, store or possess the gun, major part of a gun, gun
                   accessory, explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or
                   noxious substance; and

       (b) the person intentionally or negligently fails, without delay,
            to surrender the gun, major part of a gun, gun accessory,
            explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or noxious
            substance (as the case may be) to a police officer or a
            person designated by the Licensing Officer for the purpose
            of this section.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment
                   for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 12 months or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $20,000; but

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                   exceeding $40,000.

 (3) In this section, a person stops being authorised under this Act to
possess or use a gun, a major part of a gun or a gun accessory, an
explosive or explosive precursor, or a weapon or noxious substance if
any of the following apply:

       (a) the person’s licence to possess the gun, major part of a gun,
            gun accessory, explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or
            noxious substance (as the case may be) expires or is
            revoked;

       (b) the person’s licence to possess the gun, major part of a gun,
            gun accessory, explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or
            noxious substance (as the case may be) is suspended for the
            time the licence is suspended;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
72  NO. 3 OF 2021

       (c) the person’s class licence stops applying to the person.

Offences arrestable
 40. Every offence under this Part is arrestable for the purposes of

the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap. 68).

                                    PART 3

                        SECURITY CLEARANCE

                   Division 1 — Interpretive provisions

Meaning of “close associate” of licensee or applicant

 41.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, a person is a “close associate”
of an applicant or a licensee if —

       (a) the person alone —

               (i) holds 5% or more of the total equity interests in; or

              (ii) is in a position to control 5% or more of the voting
                   power in,

       (a) the applicant or licensee if it is an entity, a business trust or
            trust; or

       (b) the person holds or will hold any relevant position in the
            business of the applicant or licensee relating to any
            regulated activity.

 (2) A reference in this Division to the control of a percentage of the
voting power in an entity, business trust or trust is a reference to the
control, of that percentage of the total number of votes that might be
cast in a general meeting of the entity, a general meeting of the
unitholders of the business trust, or a general meeting of the
beneficiaries of the trust, as the case may be.

 (3) In ascertaining a person’s control of the percentage of the total
number of votes that might be cast at a general meeting mentioned in
subsection (2), the number of votes that the person is entitled to cast at
the meeting by reason of having been appointed a proxy or
representative to vote at the meeting is to be disregarded.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     73

(4) In this Part —

      (a) a reference to the business or undertaking of a business
           trust is a reference to the business or undertaking carried on
           by the trustee‑manager of the business trust on behalf of
           the business trust; and

      (b) a reference to the business or undertaking of a trust is a
           reference to the business or undertaking carried on by the
           trustee of the trust on behalf of the trust.

(5) In this Division —

    “arrangement” includes any formal or informal scheme,
        arrangement or understanding, and any trust whether
        express or implied;

    “business trust” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
        Business Trusts Act (Cap. 31A);

    “control” includes control as a result of, or by means of, any
        trust, agreement, arrangement, understanding or practice,
        whether or not having legal or equitable force and whether or
        not based on legal or equitable rights;

    “corporation” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
        Companies Act;

    “entity” means any sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation
        or other body of persons, whether corporate or unincorporate;

    “equity interest” means —

            (a) in relation to a corporation — a voting share in that
                 corporation;

            (b) in relation to an entity other than a corporation — any
                 right or interest, whether legal or equitable, in that
                 entity (by whatever name called) which gives the
                 holder of that right or interest voting power in that
                 entity;

            (c) in relation to a business trust — a unit in that business
                 trust; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
74  NO. 3 OF 2021

              (d) in relation to a trust other than a business trust — any
                   right or interest, whether legal or equitable, in that
                   trust (by whatever name called) which gives the
                   holder of that right or interest voting power in that
                   trust;

      “hold a position” includes holding the position for someone else;

      “relevant position”, in a business of an applicant or a licensee,
         means the position of a responsible executive and includes a
         position (however styled) whose holder participates in the
         management of the business;

      “share”, in relation to a corporation, means a share in the share
         capital of the corporation and includes stock into which all or
         any of the share capital of the corporation has been
         converted;

      “treasury share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
         Companies Act;

      “trustee-manager” and “unit” have the meanings given by
         section 2 of the Business Trusts Act;

      “unitholder” means a person who holds units in a business trust;

      “voting share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
         Companies Act but does not include a treasury share.

Meaning of holding an equity interest

 42.—(1) For the purpose of this Part, a person holds an equity
interest if the person —

       (a) has or is deemed to have an equity interest in accordance
            with subsections (2) to (6); or

       (b) otherwise has a legal or an equitable interest in that equity
            interest,

except for any interest prescribed by the Regulations as an interest
that is to be disregarded.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), a person has an equity interest if the
person has authority (whether formal or informal, or express or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     75

implied) to dispose of, or to exercise control over the disposal of, that
equity interest.

 (3) It is immaterial that the authority of a person to dispose of, or to
exercise control over the disposal of, the equity interest mentioned in
subsection (2) is, or is capable of being made, subject to restraint or
restriction.

 (4) It is immaterial, for the purposes of determining whether a
person has an equity interest, that the interest cannot be related to a
particular share, an interest or a right that gives its holder voting
power, or a unit of a business trust, as the case may be.

 (5) A person is deemed to have an equity interest if —

       (a) any property held in trust consists of or includes the equity
            interest; and

       (b) that person knows, or has reasonable grounds for
            believing, that that person has an interest under that trust.

 (6) A person is also deemed to have an equity interest if that
person —

       (a) has entered into a contract to purchase the equity interest;

       (b) has a right, otherwise than by reason of having an interest
            under a trust, to have the equity interest transferred to (or to
            the order of) that person, whether the right is exercisable
            presently or in the future and whether on the fulfilment of a
            condition or not;

       (c) has the right to acquire the equity interest under an option,
            whether the right is exercisable presently or in the future
            and whether on the fulfilment of a condition or not; or

       (d) is entitled (otherwise than by reason of having been
            appointed a proxy or representative to vote (as the case
            may be) at a general meeting of the entity, a general
            meeting of the unitholders of the business trust, or a
            general meeting of the beneficiaries of the trust in
            question) to exercise or control the exercise of a right
            attached to the equity interest, not being an equity interest
            in which that person has a legal or an equitable interest.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
76  NO. 3 OF 2021

                     Division 2 — Security clearance

Security clearance a prerequisite for licence, etc.

 43.—(1) An individual is not eligible for a licence, or to continue to
hold a licence, unless the individual has a security clearance that is in
force.

 (2) A person that is not an individual is not eligible for a licence, or
to continue to hold a licence, unless —

       (a) all of its responsible executives each has a security
            clearance that is in force; and

       (b) at least one close associate of the person has a security
            clearance that is in force.

 (3) A security clearance may be granted or cancelled by a Licensing
Officer in accordance with this Division.

Validity of security clearance

 44.—(1) A security clearance for an individual remains in force
(unless earlier cancelled) for the shortest of the following periods:

       (a) a period of 2 years after it is granted;

       (b) if the individual is or is to be a responsible executive of a
            licensee, or is or is to be employed or required to work with
            or for a licensee, the period the individual is a responsible
            executive of the licensee or is an employee or otherwise
            required to work with or for the licensee;

       (c) if the individual is a licensee, the period the licence is in
            force.

 (2) However, a security clearance is not treated as in force during
any period it is suspended.

 (3) A security clearance relating to an individual is not transferable.

Granting security clearance

 45.—(1) For the purpose of determining whether or not to grant or
cancel a security clearance for an individual, a Licensing Officer must

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     77

have regard, and give such weight as the Licensing Officer considers
appropriate, to all of the following matters:

       (a) any available information with respect to the participation
            of the individual in any criminal activity, whether or not
            there is a conviction, including and not limited to —

               (i) an offence under the Arms and Explosives Act
                   before the date of commencement of section 98(a);

              (ii) an offence under the Dangerous Fireworks Act
                   (Cap. 72) or the Explosive Substances Act
                   (Cap. 100) before the date of commencement of
                   section 98(b) or (c);

             (iii) an offence under this Act; or

             (iv) an offence under the Arms Offences Act (Cap. 14) or
                   the Corrosive and Explosive Substances and
                   Offensive Weapons Act (Cap. 65);

       (b) whether the individual has a history of violence or threats
            of violence, including behaviour mentioned in section 3, 4,
            5, 6 or 7 of the Protection from Harassment Act
            (Cap. 256A);

       (c) whether, because of the individual’s physical or mental
            health, the individual may not handle guns, major parts of
            guns, gun accessories, explosives, explosive precursors,
            weapons or noxious substances (as the case may be)
            responsibly;

       (d) any evidence of the exercise of any power under section 66
            or 67 —

               (i) in relation to the individual as a licensee or class
                   licensee; or

              (ii) in relation to a licensee holding, or a former licensee
                   which held, a licence of which the individual is or
                   was —

                    (A) a responsible executive or close associate of; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
78  NO. 3 OF 2021

                     (B) a special worker employed or required to work
                          with or for,

              (ii) that licensee or former licensee, when the power was
                   exercised;

       (e) any other relevant information as to whether it would be
            contrary to the public interest or national security of
            Singapore for the individual to handle or otherwise have
            access to a gun, a major part of a gun, a gun accessory, an
            explosive or explosive precursor, a weapon or noxious
            substance.

 (2) Despite any other law, the Commissioner of Police or a law
enforcement agency may, on the request of a Licensing Officer,
provide a report in respect of any one or more of the matters in
subsection (1) for the purposes of a security clearance under this Act.

 (3) If a Licensing Officer refuses to grant (on renewal or otherwise)
a security clearance for an individual, the Licensing Officer must, by
written notice given to —

       (a) the individual; and

       (b) any licensee that the individual —

               (i) is or is to be a responsible executive of, or a special
                   worker who works for or with the licensee; or

              (ii) is a close associate of,

notify the individual and licensee of the refusal within 28 days after
the decision to refuse is made.

 (4) If —

       (a) a Licensing Officer refuses to grant (on renewal or
            otherwise) a security clearance for an individual on the
            ground that the Licensing Officer is satisfied that to grant
            the security clearance would be contrary to the public
            interest or national security of Singapore; and

       (b) the Licensing Officer made the decision because of
            information that is classified by the Licensing Officer as
            security sensitive information,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     79

the Licensing Officer is not required to provide any reasons for the
Licensing Officer’s refusal decision other than that the decision was
made on public interest or national security grounds under this
section.

Cancellation of security clearance

 46.—(1) A Licensing Officer may by written notice given to an
individual cancel a security clearance for the individual if the
Licensing Officer —

       (a) is satisfied that the individual is being investigated or
            proceeded against for participating in any criminal activity,
            such as but not limited to —

               (i) an offence under the Arms and Explosives Act
                   committed before the date of commencement of
                   section 98(a);

              (ii) an offence under this Act;

             (iii) an offence under the Arms Offences Act or the
                   Corrosive and Explosive Substances and Offensive
                   Weapons Act;

             (iv) an offence under the Dangerous Fireworks Act or the
                   Explosive Substances Act committed before the date
                   of commencement of section 98(b) or (c); or

              (v) an offence under Chapter XVI of the Penal Code
                   (Cap. 224);

       (b) becomes aware of a circumstance in section 45(1) that
            would have allowed the Licensing Officer to refuse to
            grant the individual the security clearance, had the
            Licensing Officer been aware of the circumstance
            immediately before granting the security clearance;

       (c) is satisfied that the security clearance had been obtained by
            the individual by fraud or misrepresentation; or

       (d) is satisfied that the public interest or national security of
            Singapore requires.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
80  NO. 3 OF 2021

 (2) A Licensing Officer may give a notice under subsection (1) only
after providing the individual concerned a reasonable opportunity to
be heard, except that such an opportunity need not be given if there
are reasonable grounds for the Licensing Officer to believe that it is
appropriate or requisite to avoid any actual or imminent occurrence
that endangers or threatens to endanger the safety of the public.

 (3) If a Licensing Officer cancels a security clearance for an
individual, the Licensing Officer must, by written notice given to —

       (a) the individual; and

       (b) any licensee that the individual —

               (i) is or is to be a responsible executive of, or a special
                   worker who works for or with the licensee; or

              (ii) is a close associate of,

notify the individual and licensee of the cancellation within 28 days
after the decision to cancel is made.

 (4) If —

       (a) a Licensing Officer cancels a security clearance for an
            individual on the ground that the Licensing Officer is
            satisfied that the public interest or national security of
            Singapore requires the cancellation; and

       (b) the Licensing Officer made the decision because of
            information that is classified by the Licensing Officer as
            security sensitive information,

the Licensing Officer is not required to provide any reasons for the
Licensing Officer’s decision other than that the decision was made on
public interest or national security grounds under this section.

                           Division 3 — Offences

Special workers need security clearance

 47.—(1) A licensee commits an offence if —

       (a) the licensee causes or allows an individual to work with or
            for, or to continue to work with or for, the licensee as a
            special worker; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     81

       (b) the licensee knows that, or is reckless as to whether, the
            individual’s security clearance to be a special worker is not
            in force.

 (2) An individual commits an offence if —

       (a) he or she works with or for, or continues to work with or
            for, a licensee as a special worker; and

       (b) he or she knows that, or is reckless as to whether, his or her
            security clearance to be a special worker is not in force.

 (3) Subject to subsection (5), a person who is guilty of an offence
under subsection (1) shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) where the offence involves any gun, major part of a gun or
            explosives —

               (i) for a person who is an individual —

                    (A) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
                          imprisonment for a term not exceeding
                          12 months or to both; but

                     (B) where the person is a repeat offender — to a
                          fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment
                          for a term not exceeding 24 months or to both;
                          or

              (ii) for a person who is not an individual —

                    (A) to a fine not exceeding $25,000; but

                     (B) where the person is a repeat offender — to a
                          fine not exceeding $50,000; or

       (b) where the offence involves gun accessories, weapons or
            noxious substances —

               (i) for a person who is an individual —

                    (A) to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
                          imprisonment for a term not exceeding
                          6 months or to both; but

                     (B) where the person is a repeat offender — to a
                          fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
82  NO. 3 OF 2021

                          for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both;
                          or

              (ii) in any other case —

                    (A) to a fine not exceeding $10,000; but

                     (B) where the person is a repeat offender — to a
                          fine not exceeding $20,000.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), an individual who is guilty of an
offence under subsection (2) shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) where the offence involves guns, major parts of a gun,
            explosives or explosive precursors —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for
                   a term not exceeding 12 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 24 months or to both; or

       (b) where the offence involves gun accessories, weapons or
            noxious substances —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $2,500 or to imprisonment for
                   a term not exceeding 6 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (5) Where in proceedings for an offence under subsection (1) or (2),
it is proved that an individual worked with or for, or continued to
work with or for, a licensee despite the individual’s security clearance
to be a special worker being not in force, and the work involved a
combination of —

       (a) guns, major parts of a gun, explosives or explosive
            precursors; and

       (b) gun accessories, weapons or noxious substances,

a person convicted or found guilty of committing the offence under
subsection (1) shall be liable instead to the punishment in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     83

subsection (3)(a), and a person convicted or found guilty of
committing the offence under subsection (2) shall be liable instead
to the punishment in subsection (4)(a).

Notice about close associates

 48.—(1) If a person becomes, on or after the appointed day, a close
associate of a licensee, that licensee must, within 7 days after the
person becomes a close associate, give written notice to a Licensing
Officer of that fact.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) for an offender who is an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment
                   for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                   exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
                   exceeding 24 months or to both; or

       (b) for an offender who is not an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $15,000; but

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                   exceeding $30,000.

 (3) In any proceedings for an offence in relation to a contravention
of subsection (1), it is a defence for the accused to prove that the
accused —

       (a) was not aware of the contravention when it occurred; and

       (b) notified a Licensing Officer of the contravention within a
            period of 14 days after becoming aware of the
            contravention.

 (4) In any proceedings for an offence in relation to a contravention
of subsection (1), it is also a defence for the accused to prove that
even though the accused was aware of the contravention —

       (a) the contravention occurred as a result of an increase in the
            holding of equity interest, or in the voting power

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
84  NO. 3 OF 2021

            controlled, by any of the associates of the accused, in the
            entity, business trust or trust, as the case may be;

       (b) the accused has no agreement or arrangement (whether
            oral or in writing and whether express or implied) with that
            associate with respect to the acquisition, holding or
            disposal of equity interests or other interests, or under
            which they act together in exercising their voting power, in
            relation to the entity, business trust or trust, as the case may
            be; and

       (c) the accused notified a Licensing Officer of the
            contravention within a period of 7 days after the
            contravention.

 (5) Except as provided in subsections (3) and (4), it is not a defence
in any proceedings for an offence in relation to a contravention of
subsection (1) to prove that the accused did not intend to or did not
knowingly contravene subsection (1).

                                    PART 4

                                 LICENSING

                           Division 1 — Licences

Classes of licences

 49. The Licensing Officer designated by the Minister may
subdivide licences to be granted under this Part into classes, such
as according to any of the following:

       (a) the construction, or category or kind, of gun, major part of
            a gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive precursor,
            weapon, noxious substance, shooting range or paintball
            range, involved in the regulated activity authorised by the
            licence;

       (b) the nature of the regulated activity, including the kind of
            handling of the gun, major part of a gun, gun accessory,
            explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or noxious
            substance and the circumstances of the handling of the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     85

            gun, major part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive,
            explosive precursor, weapon or noxious substance;

       (c) the number or other quantity of guns, major parts of a gun,
            gun accessories, explosives, explosive precursors,
            weapons or noxious substances involved in the regulated
            activity authorised by the licence;

       (d) the place or premises where the regulated activity
            authorised by the licence is being or is to be carried on.

Application for or to renew licence

 50.—(1) An application for or to renew a licence must be made to a
Licensing Officer in accordance with this section.

 (2) An application for or to renew a licence must —

       (a) be in the form and manner a Licensing Officer specifies;

       (b) be accompanied by an application fee, if prescribed;

       (c) contain —

               (i) an address in Singapore at which notices and other
                   documents under this Act for the applicant may be
                   served; or

              (ii) the name and address of one or more persons in
                   Singapore authorised by the applicant to accept on
                   the applicant’s behalf service of notices and other
                   documents under this Act; and

       (d) be accompanied by the prescribed information and any
            other additional information that the Licensing Officer
            requires to decide on the application.

 (3) In addition, an application to renew a licence must be made no
later than a prescribed period before the date of expiry of the licence,
unless otherwise allowed by the Licensing Officer in any particular
case which must then be treated as a late renewal application.

 (4) A Licensing Officer may refuse to consider an application for or
to renew a licence —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
86  NO. 3 OF 2021

       (a) that is incomplete or not made in accordance with this
            section; or

       (b) where an inspection mentioned in subsection (5) in relation
            to the application is refused.

 (5) Upon receiving an application for or to renew a licence, a
Licensing Officer may carry out, or arrange to be carried out by any
authorised officer, such investigations and inquiries in relation to the
application as the Licensing Officer considers necessary for a proper
consideration of the application, which may include an inspection of
either or both the following:

       (a) the place or premises on or at which the applicant intends
            to carry on the regulated activity to be authorised by the
            licence;

       (b) any vehicle, equipment or other thing which the applicant
            intends to use to carry on the regulated activity in the
            application.

 (6) A person commits an offence if the person, being an applicant
for the grant of a licence —

       (a) provides, or causes or permits to be provided, any
            document or information in connection with the
            application, which is false in a material particular; and

       (b) knows or ought reasonably to know that, or is reckless as to
            whether, it is false or misleading in a material particular.

 (7) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (6) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Grant of licences

 51.—(1) After considering any application under section 50 for or
to renew a licence, a Licensing Officer may —

       (a) on payment of —

               (i) the applicable licence fee (if prescribed), grant the
                   applicant a licence authorising the applicant to carry

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     87

                   on the regulated activity to be authorised by the
                   licence; or

              (ii) a renewal fee (if prescribed) or, in the case of a late
                   renewal application a late renewal fee (if prescribed),
                   renew the licence; or

       (b) refuse to grant or renew the licence, as the case may be.

 (2) In deciding whether an applicant should be granted a licence, or
the applicant’s licence should be renewed, and the conditions to
impose or modify, a Licensing Officer must have regard, and give
such weight as the Licensing Officer considers appropriate, to all of
the following matters:

       (a) whether the applicant is or is not —

               (i) intending to carry on any other regulated activity; or

              (ii) a holder of another licence or already a class
                   licensee;

       (b) the design and safety of the gun, major part of a gun, gun
            accessory, explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or
            noxious substance to be involved in carrying on the
            regulated activity in the application;

       (c) the adequacy of places or premises proposed to be used in
            carrying on the regulated activity in the application;

       (d) whether the applicant and where necessary, whether every
            responsible executive of the applicant is a suitable person
            to be involved in carrying on the regulated activity in the
            application;

       (e) the security clearance that is required under Part 3 for —

               (i) every responsible executive of the applicant;

              (ii) every close associate of the applicant; and

             (iii) every individual undertaking or intending to
                   undertake work as a special worker for or with the
                   applicant in connection with the regulated activity;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
88  NO. 3 OF 2021

        (f) whether the applicant is a corporation, partnership, limited
            liability partnership or an unincorporated association;

       (g) whether the applicant has nominated or will nominate at
            least one individual who satisfies the prescribed
            qualifications as a representative staff if a licence is
            granted;

       (h) whether it is otherwise contrary to the public interest or
            national security of Singapore for the licence to be granted
            to the applicant.

 (3) However, a licence must not be granted or renewed authorising
the carrying on of any regulated activity where the regulated activity
involves or is to involve a prohibited gun, prohibited gun accessory,
prohibited explosive or prohibited weapon, unless that regulated
activity is —

       (a) to destroy the prohibited gun, prohibited gun accessory,
            prohibited explosive or prohibited weapon; or

       (b) to convey the prohibited gun, prohibited gun accessory,
            prohibited explosive or prohibited weapon (as the case
            may be) for the purpose of its destruction.

 (4) For the purpose of determining whether or not a person or an
individual mentioned in subsection (2)(d) is a suitable person to be
involved in carrying on a regulated activity, a Licensing Officer must
have regard, and give such weight as the Licensing Officer considers
appropriate, to all of the following matters:

       (a) the person’s or individual’s relevant knowledge,
            competency and experience in matters connected with
            the regulated activity in the application;

       (b) whether, because of the individual’s physical or mental
            health, the individual may not handle any gun, major part
            of a gun, gun accessory, explosive, weapon or noxious
            substance (as the case may be) responsibly;

       (c) whether the applicant does or does not have (or is likely or
            unlikely to have) the financial capacity and ability to carry

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     89

            on the regulated activity in the application according to the
            provisions of this Act and the applicable standards;

       (d) any available information with respect to the participation
            of the applicant in any criminal activity;

       (e) any evidence of the exercise of any power under section 66
            or 67 —

               (i) in relation to the person or individual for committing
                   an offence under this Act, or for contravening any
                   direction given under this Act; or

              (ii) in relation to a licensee holding, or a former licensee
                   which held, a licence of which the individual is or
                   was an officer when the power was exercised.

 (5) To avoid doubt —

       (a) a Licensing Officer is not confined to consideration of the
            matters specified in subsection (2), (3) or (4) and may take
            into account such other matters and evidence as may be
            relevant; and

       (b) this Act applies to an application for the renewal of a
            licence as if it were an application for a new licence.

 (6) Without affecting subsection (1), a Licensing Officer may grant
a renewal of a licence (of any class) with or without modifying the
conditions of the licence, but section 54(2), (3) and (4) does not apply
to or in relation to granting a renewal of a licence with modifications
to the conditions of the licence.

Licence validity

 52.—(1) Every licence granted under this Part is in force for the
period specified in the licence —

       (a) except when it is suspended under section 66; or

       (b) unless it is earlier revoked under section 66.

 (2) Every licence must be in the form the Licensing Officer
determines.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
90  NO. 3 OF 2021

Conditions of licences

 53.—(1) In granting a licence to any person, a Licensing Officer
may impose such conditions as the Licensing Officer considers
requisite or expedient having regard to the purposes of this Act.

 (2) In particular, in granting a licence authorising a regulated
activity, a Licensing Officer may impose conditions —

       (a) fixing the type of guns, major parts of a gun, gun
            accessories, explosives, explosive precursors, weapons,
            noxious substances, shooting ranges or paintball ranges
            involved in the regulated activity;

       (b) fixing the maximum or minimum number or quantity, or
            both, of the guns, major parts of a gun, gun accessories,
            explosives, explosive precursors, weapons, noxious
            substances, shooting ranges or paintball ranges involved
            in the regulated activity during the validity period of the
            licence or any part of that period;

       (c) fixing the place or premises in Singapore within which the
            licensee may carry on the regulated activity;

       (d) requiring a serial number to be engraved on or affixed to
            every gun, major part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive,
            explosive precursor or weapon involved in the regulated
            activity;

       (e) requiring the licensee —

               (i) to appoint, and ensure that at all times there is
                   appointed, one or more persons in Singapore
                   authorised by the licensee to accept on the
                   licensee’s behalf service of notices and other
                   documents under this Act; and

              (ii) to provide the name, address and contact details of
                   the person or persons appointed as required by
                   sub‑paragraph (i);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     91

        (f) requiring the licensee —

               (i) to nominate, and ensure that at all times there is
                   nominated, one or more representative staff each of
                   whom satisfies the prescribed qualifications; and

              (ii) to provide the name, address and contact details of
                   the representative staff so nominated;

       (g) requiring the licensee to undergo (at its own cost) such
            audit as the Licensing Officer may require to ascertain the
            licensee’s compliance with —

               (i) the provisions of this Act or a standard applicable to
                   the licensee;

              (ii) the conditions of the licence granted to that licensee;
                   or

             (iii) a direction given under this Act.

 (3) An audit referred to in subsection (2)(g) must be carried out by
authorised officers or other officers of the Licensing Officer or such
qualified individuals approved by the Licensing Officer for that
purpose.

Modifying conditions of licence

 54.—(1) Subject to this section, it is lawful for a Licensing Officer
to modify the conditions of a licence without compensating the
licensee concerned.

 (2) Before modifying any condition of a licence, a Licensing
Officer must give notice to the licensee holding that licence —

       (a) stating that the Licensing Officer proposes to make the
            modification in the manner as specified in the notice; and

       (b) specifying the time (being not less than 7 days from the
            date of service of notice on the licensee) within which the
            licensee may make written representations to the Licensing
            Officer with respect to the proposed modification.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
92  NO. 3 OF 2021

 (3) Upon receiving any written representation referred to in
subsection (2), the Licensing Officer must consider that
representation and may —

       (a) reject the representation;

       (b) amend the proposed modification of any condition of a
            licence in such manner as the Licensing Officer thinks fit
            having regard to the representation; or

       (c) withdraw the proposed modification.

 (4) Where —

       (a) the Licensing Officer rejects any written representation
            under subsection (3)(a);

       (b) the Licensing Officer amends any proposed modification
            to any condition of a licence under subsection (3)(b); or

       (c) no written representation is received by the Licensing
            Officer within the time specified in subsection (2)(b), or
            any written representation made under that subsection is
            subsequently withdrawn,

the Licensing Officer must issue a written direction to the licensee in
question requiring the licensee, within the time specified by the
Licensing Officer, to give effect to the modification as specified in the
notice under subsection (2) or as amended by the Licensing Officer,
as the case may be.

Restriction on transfer and surrender of licence

 55.—(1) A licence, and any rights, benefits or privileges under the
licence, are not transferable or assignable to any other person
unless —

       (a) the licence contains a condition authorising the transfer or
            assignment; and

       (b) a Licensing Officer consents in writing to the transfer or
            assignment.

 (2) Any consent under subsection (1) may be given subject to
compliance with such conditions as the Licensing Officer thinks fit to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     93

impose, which may include conditions modifying, or requiring or
otherwise providing for the making of modifications to, the
conditions of the licence; but section 54(2), (3) and (4) does not
apply to or in relation to these modifications to the conditions of the
licence.

 (3) A transfer or an assignment, or purported transfer or
assignment, of a licence, or of any rights, benefits or privileges
under the licence, is void and of no effect —

       (a) if the licence is not capable of transfer or assignment;

       (b) if the transfer or assignment, or purported transfer or
            assignment, is in breach of a condition of the licence; or

       (c) if there has, before the transfer or assignment or purported
            transfer or assignment, been a contravention of a condition
            subject to compliance with which the consent required by
            subsection (1) is given.

 (4) Every licence is not capable of being surrendered without the
written consent of a Licensing Officer, and any surrender or
purported surrender of a licence is void if it is without such consent.

                        Division 2 — Class licences

Class licence

 56.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, determine a
class licence that authorises a person to which the order applies to
carry on a regulated activity or a class or description of regulated
activity without a licence granted under this Part —

       (a) for a specified period or indefinitely, or to an extent
            specified in that order; and

       (b) subject to such conditions as may be specified in that order.

 (2) To avoid doubt, there may be more than one class licence
determined, and according (but not limited) to any of the following:

       (a) the construction or type of gun, major part of a gun, gun
            accessory, explosive, explosive precursor, weapon,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
94  NO. 3 OF 2021

            noxious substance, shooting range or paintball range
            involved in the regulated activity;

       (b) the nature of the regulated activity;

       (c) the number or other quantity of guns, major parts of a gun,
            gun accessories, explosives, explosive precursors,
            weapons, noxious substances, shooting ranges or
            paintball ranges involved in the regulated activity;

       (d) the place or premises where the regulated activity
            authorised by the licence is being or is to be carried on.

 (3) An order under subsection (1) continues in force, unless it is
revoked, for such period as may be specified in the order.

 (4) The carrying on of a regulated activity by a class licensee to
which a class licence applies is deemed authorised by this Act if it is
done in accordance with the conditions of the class licence.

Variation and revocation of class licence

 57.—(1) Subject to this section, the Minister may, by order in the
Gazette, vary a class licence by —

       (a) varying or revoking any condition specified in the class
            licence; or

       (b) specifying additional conditions of the class licence.

 (2) Before varying a class licence or revoking an order under
section 56 for a class licence, a Licensing Officer designated by the
Minister must, unless it considers it impractical or undesirable in the
circumstances of the case, cause to be published, in accordance with
subsection (3), a written notice that —

       (a) states that the Minister proposes to vary the class licence,
            or to end the class licence;

       (b) describes the proposed variation or ending; and

       (c) invites interested persons to make representations about
            the proposed variation or ending by a specified date that is
            at least 14 days after the date of publication of the notice.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     95

 (3) A notice under subsection (2) must be published on the
prescribed website or in one or more other forms that are readily
accessible by the public.

 (4) The Minister must, before varying a class licence determined
under an order under section 56 or revoking such an order, give due
consideration to any representations made to a Licensing Officer
pursuant to the notice given in accordance with subsection (2).

Conditions applicable to class licensee

 58.—(1) Without limiting section 56(1) or 57, the conditions
subject to which a class licensee may carry on a regulated activity
under a class licence may include any of the following requirements:

       (a) to do or not to do such things as are specified or are of a
            description specified, except insofar as the Licensing
            Officer specified in that class licence consents to the
            class licensee doing or not doing them;

       (b) to refer for determination by the Licensing Officer
            specified in that class licence such questions arising
            under the class licence or are of a description specified;

       (c) to provide information and reports to the Licensing Officer
            specified in that class licence about the class licensee and
            the regulated activity carried on;

       (d) to provide the Licensing Officer specified in that class
            licence —

               (i) an address in Singapore at which notices and other
                   documents under this Act for the class licensee may
                   be served; or

              (ii) the name and address of one or more persons in
                   Singapore authorised by the class licensee to accept
                   on the class licensee’s behalf service of notices and
                   other documents under this Act;

       (e) to nominate, and ensure that at all times there is nominated,
            one or more representative staff each of whom satisfies the
            prescribed qualifications, and to provide the Licensing

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
96  NO. 3 OF 2021

            Officer specified in that class licence the name, address
            and contact details of the representative staff so nominated.

 (2) In particular, a class licence may provide that the class licence
applies to a person subject to a condition precedent that requires that
person —

       (a) to notify the Licensing Officer about the person’s identity
            and other particulars about the regulated activity carried on
            by the person; and

       (b) to pay a charge to the Licensing Officer for receiving the
            notification.

                                    PART 5

             BUSINESS OPERATION REQUIREMENTS

       Division 1 — Management controls and record‑keeping

Change in management of licensee

 59.—(1) Where a licensee is a corporation, partnership, limited
liability partnership or an unincorporated association, it is a condition
of its licence that the licensee to whom the licence is granted must
notify a Licensing Officer of —

       (a) the resignation or removal of any responsible executive or
            any representative staff of the licensee, within the
            prescribed period after the date of resignation or
            removal, as the case may be; or

       (b) the death of any responsible executive or any
            representative staff of the licensee, within the prescribed
            period after the date the licensee becomes aware of that
            death.

 (2) This section applies even though a licence is suspended
pursuant to section 66.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     97

Accounts and statements

 60.—(1) A licensee must —

       (a) in respect of the whole or part (as the case may be) of every
            year, or other period prescribed in the Regulations if so
            prescribed, prepare such accounts and statements as are
            specified in, or ascertained in accordance with, the
            Regulations;

       (b) retain the accounts and statements prepared in accordance
            with paragraph (a) for 5 years after the end of the period to
            which they relate;

       (c) within such period allowed by a Licensing Officer, give the
            Licensing Officer those accounts and statements duly
            audited by an auditor approved by the Licensing Officer;
            and

       (d) keep and retain records, where the records are relevant to
            the preparation of the accounts and statements of the
            licensee mentioned in paragraph (a), for such period and in
            such manner as prescribed in the Regulations.

 (2) A licensee must not prepare any accounts or statements required
by subsection (1) in such a way that they do not correctly record and
explain the matters or things to which they relate.

 (3) A licensee —

       (a) who is subject to any requirement under subsection (1) or
            (2); and

       (b) who intentionally or negligently contravenes the
            requirement,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000.

 (4) Regulations may be made to vary the period mentioned in
subsection (1)(b).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
98  NO. 3 OF 2021

Record-keeping and giving information

 61.—(1) A licensee must —

       (a) keep and retain, for such period as may be prescribed,
            records, where the records are relevant to monitoring or
            evaluating, under this Act, an aspect of the regulated
            activity as prescribed in the Regulations; and

       (b) give to the Licensing Officer, within the period and in the
            manner specified in the licence, information that is relevant
            to monitoring or evaluating, under this Act, an aspect of the
            regulated activity mentioned in paragraph (a).

 (2) A class licensee must —

       (a) keep and retain, for such period as may be prescribed in the
            class licence applicable to the class licensee, records where
            the records are relevant to monitoring or evaluating, under
            this Act, an aspect of the regulated activity as specified in
            the class licence; and

       (b) give to the Licensing Officer, within the period and in the
            manner prescribed in the class licence applicable to the
            class licensee, information that is relevant to monitoring or
            evaluating, under this Act, an aspect of the regulated
            activity as specified in the class licence.

 (3) A person who is subject to a requirement under subsection (1) or
(2) to keep and retain or give any record or information commits an
offence if the person —

       (a) intentionally or negligently contravenes the requirement
            under subsection (1) or (2) to keep, retain or give;

       (b) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any record or
            information which the person is required under
            subsection (1) or (2) to keep, retain or give; or

       (c) who, in keeping, retaining or giving the record or
            information required under subsection (1) or (2), makes
            any statement which the person knows to be false in a
            material particular, or recklessly makes such a statement.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL                     99

 (4) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (3) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

                 Division 2 — Standards and directions

Standards for licensees and class licensees

 62.—(1) A Licensing Officer may —

       (a) issue one or more standards applicable to licensees or class
            licensees, or specified types of licensees or class licensees;

       (b) approve as a standard applicable to licensees or class
            licensees, or specified types of licensees or class licensees,
            any document prepared by a person other than the
            Licensing Officer if the Licensing Officer considers the
            document as suitable for this purpose; or

       (c) amend or revoke any standard issued under paragraph (a)
            or approved under paragraph (b),

with respect to all or any of the matters in subsection (2) or (3), as the
case may be.

 (2) The matters for the purposes of subsection (1) include any of the
following:

       (a) the design, construction, use and deployment of guns,
            major parts of a gun, gun accessories, explosives,
            explosive precursors, weapons, noxious substances,
            shooting ranges or paintball ranges involved in carrying
            on a regulated activity by a licensee or class licensee;

       (b) measures directed towards ensuring the maintenance of
            and keeping secure the carrying on of a regulated activity
            by a licensee or class licensee;

       (c) the safe and secure storage of guns, gun accessories,
            explosives, explosive precursors, weapons and noxious
            substances;

       (d) making guns inoperable or deactivating explosives;

       (e) other security or safety measures relating to regulated
            activities.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
100  NO. 3 OF 2021

 (3) A standard may, in particular, specify the duties and obligations
of any licensee or class licensee in relation to its business operation
insofar as it relates to the carrying on of regulated activities
authorised by its licence or class licence.

 (4) If any provision in any standard is inconsistent with any
provision of this Act, that provision, to the extent of the
inconsistency —

       (a) is to have effect subject to this Act; or

       (b) having regard to this Act, is not to have effect.

 (5) Where a standard is issued, approved, amended or revoked by a
Licensing Officer under subsection (1), the Licensing Officer must —

       (a) give notice of the issue, approval, amendment or
            revocation (as the case may be) of the standard to every
            licensee or class licensee to whom the standard applies;

       (b) specify in the notice mentioned in paragraph (a) the date of
            issue, approval, amendment or revocation, as the case may
            be; and

       (c) ensure that, so long as the standard remains in force, copies
            of that standard, and of all amendments to that standard,
            are available for inspection, free of charge, by the licensees
            or class licensees to whom the standard applies.

 (6) No standard, no amendment to an approved standard, and no
revocation of any approved standard, has any force or effect as an
approved standard until the notice relating thereto is given in
accordance with subsection (5).

 (7) A standard issued or approved under this section does not have
legislative effect.

 (8) Subject to subsection (9), every licensee and class licensee must
comply with the standards applicable to the licensee or class licensee.

 (9) A Licensing Officer may, for such time as the Licensing Officer
may specify, waive the application of any standard or part of a
standard, issued or approved under this section to any particular
licensee or class licensee.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 101

 (10) In subsection (2)(b) and (c), “secure” means secure from loss,
theft, sabotage or unauthorised access.

Directions affecting licensees and class licensees
 63.—(1) A Licensing Officer may give a direction to a licensee or

class licensee for or in respect of —
       (a) the safety or security of guns, major parts of a gun, gun
            accessories, explosives, explosive precursors, weapons,
            noxious substances, shooting ranges or paintball ranges
            involved in the undertaking of a regulated activity carried
            on by a licensee or class licensee; or
       (b) any matter affecting the interests of the public in
            connection with the regulated activity carried on by the
            licensee or class licensee.

 (2) A direction given under subsection (1) —
       (a) may require the licensee or class licensee concerned
            (according to the circumstances of the case) to do, or to
            refrain from doing, for a specified period, the things
            specified in the direction or the things that are of a
            description specified in the direction;
       (b) takes effect at such time, being the earliest practicable
            time, as is determined by or under that direction; and
       (c) may be revoked at any time by the Licensing Officer who
            gave it.

 (3) A direction under this section continues in force until the earlier
of the following occurs:

       (a) the expiry date (if any) stated in the direction is reached;
       (b) the Licensing Officer revokes the direction.
 (4) Before exercising any powers under subsection (1), a Licensing
Officer must give written notice to the licensee or class licensee
concerned —

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
102  NO. 3 OF 2021

       (a) stating that the Licensing Officer intends to give a direction
            to the licensee or class licensee under this section and the
            nature of the direction; and

       (b) specifying the time (being not less than 14 days after the
            date of service of the notice on the licensee or class
            licensee) within which written representations may be
            made to the Licensing Officer with respect to the proposed
            direction.

 (5) The Licensing Officer may, after considering any written
representation made pursuant to subsection (4)(b), decide to give
or not to give the direction as the Licensing Officer considers
appropriate.

 (6) The Licensing Officer must serve on the licensee or class
licensee concerned a notice of the Licensing Officer’s decision under
subsection (5).

 (7) Every licensee or class licensee must comply with every
direction given under this section to the licensee or class licensee as
soon as it takes effect.

 (8) No civil or criminal liability is incurred by the licensee or class
licensee, or an officer, employee or agent of the licensee or class
licensee, for doing or omitting to do any act, if the act is done or
omitted to be done with reasonable care and in good faith and for the
purpose of complying with or giving effect to a direction given under
this section.

Security directions

 64.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the Minister may, and in
accordance with subsections (3), (4), (5) and (6), give such security
directions as may be necessary or desirable to address any issue or
perceived issue of public safety, or to mitigate adverse consequences
arising from any issue or perceived issue of public safety, in
connection with any regulated activity.

 (2) The Minister must not make any security direction unless it is
impracticable in the circumstances of the particular case for the
Minister to make or amend any Regulations to effectively address any

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 103

issue or perceived issue of public safety or to mitigate adverse
consequences arising from any issue or perceived issue of public
safety in connection with any regulated activity; and so far as any
security direction is inconsistent with the Regulations, the security
direction prevails.

 (3) The Minister may give a security direction made under this
section to all or any of the following, individually or as a class:

       (a) a licensee;
       (b) a class licensee;
       (c) a person who is exempt from any provision of this Act by

            an order under section 87, 88 or 89.
 (4) In making a security direction under this section, it is not
necessary for the Minister to give any person who may be affected by
the direction a chance to be heard before the direction is given.
 (5) A security direction may be in force for a period not exceeding
6 months unless earlier revoked under subsection (6), and may be
renewed by the Minister once only for a further period not exceeding
6 months.
 (6) The Minister may, at any time when any security direction is in
force, revoke the security direction by giving notice of that revocation
in the same manner as the direction was given.
 (7) A security direction given under subsection (1) —

       (a) may require the person to whom it is given (according to
            the circumstances of the case) to do, or to refrain from
            doing, for a specified period, things specified in the
            direction or things that are of a description specified in the
            direction, including any of the following:
               (i) a requirement that the person provide information, or
                   produce for inspection material in the person’s
                   possession, relating to the regulated activity or the
                   premises where the regulated activity is carried on,
                   or to activities carried on at those premises;

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
104  NO. 3 OF 2021

              (ii) a requirement that the person ensure that the
                   premises where the regulated activity is carried on
                   be closed and remain closed for a specified period;

             (iii) a requirement that the person ensure that specified
                   activities or operations at those premises be
                   discontinued or not commenced for a specified
                   period;

             (iv) a requirement that the person ensure that specified
                   activities or operations not be carried on at the
                   premises except at specified times or subject to
                   specified conditions;

              (v) a requirement that the person take action in relation
                   to those premises as specified in the notice;

       (b) takes effect in accordance with section 65(6), or at such
            time as is determined by or under that direction if provided
            in the direction; and

       (c) may be revoked at any time by the Minister.

 (8) Every person in subsection (3) must comply with every
direction given under this section to the person as soon as it takes
effect.

 (9) A person to whom a direction is given under this section
commits an offence if the person intentionally or negligently fails to
comply with the security direction, and shall be liable on
conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual — to a fine not exceeding
            $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            12 months or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual — to a fine not
            exceeding $20,000.

 (10) No civil or criminal liability is incurred by the person, or an
officer, employee or agent of the person, for doing or omitting to do
any act, if the act is done or omitted to be done with reasonable care
and in good faith and for the purpose of complying with or giving
effect to a direction given under this section.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 105

How security direction is given
 65.—(1) A security direction is binding on the person or class of

persons to whom it is addressed and given.
 (2) A security direction that is addressed to a person is sufficiently

given if it is served in the manner prescribed in section 84.
 (3) A security direction that is addressed to a class of persons is

sufficiently given if it is —
       (a) served on each of the persons in the class in the manner
            prescribed in section 84; or
       (b) published both —
               (i) in a daily newspaper circulating in Singapore or in
                   any other news media that, in the opinion of the
                   Licensing Officer, is most likely to bring the security
                   direction to the attention of the persons who belong
                   to the class; and
              (ii) on a prescribed website.

 (4) Once such a security direction is made and given under this
section, the Licensing Officer must also publish the making of the
direction in a manner that the Licencing Officer thinks will secure
adequate publicity for the fact of making and giving of the security
direction.

 (5) However, failure to publish a security direction under
subsection (4) does not invalidate the direction.

 (6) Subject to anything provided to the contrary in a security
direction, the security direction that is given —

       (a) in accordance with subsection (2) takes effect when it is
            served;

       (b) in accordance with subsection (3)(a) takes effect when it is
            served on all the persons in the class in question; and

       (c) in accordance with subsection (3)(b) takes effect at the
            beginning of the day after the date on which
            subsection (3)(b) has been complied with.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
106  NO. 3 OF 2021

                                    PART 6

                              ENFORCEMENT

                      Division 1 — Regulatory action

Suspension or revocation, etc., of licence or class licence

 66.—(1) Subject to section 68, if a Licensing Officer is satisfied
that —

       (a) a licensee or class licensee is contravening or not
            complying with, or has contravened or failed to comply
            with —

               (i) any of the conditions of its licence or, in the case of a
                   class licensee, any condition of its class licence;

              (ii) any provision of a standard applicable to the licensee
                   or class licensee; or

             (iii) any direction or order given to the licensee or class
                   licensee under subsection (2)(b) or (e) or section 63;

       (b) the licensee or class licensee has gone or is likely to go into
            compulsory or voluntary liquidation other than for the
            purpose of amalgamation or reconstruction;

       (c) the licensee or class licensee has made any assignment to,
            or composition with, its creditors or if a corporation, is
            unable to pay its debts;

       (d) the licensee or class licensee is not carrying on the
            regulated activity authorised by its licence or class licence
            in a safe or secure manner;

       (e) the regulated activity authorised by the licence or class
            licence involves a gun or gun accessory, an explosive or a
            weapon that has become a prohibited gun, prohibited gun
            accessory, prohibited explosive or prohibited weapon;

        (f) the licensee or class licensee, or a responsible executive,
            representative staff or special worker of the licensee or
            class licensee, is convicted of —

               (i) any offence under this Act; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 107

              (ii) any offence under the Arms Offences Act or the
                   Corrosive and Explosive Substances and Offensive
                   Weapons Act,

        (f) committed during the term of the licence or class licence,
            as the case may be;

       (g) the licence had been obtained by the licensee by fraud or
            misrepresentation;

       (h) the licensee’s security clearance is not in force, or none of
            the responsible executives of the licensee or none of the
            close associates of the licensee has a security clearance that
            is in force; or

        (i) the public interest or national security of Singapore
            requires,

the Licensing Officer may revoke (without any compensation) the
licensee’s licence, or disapply the class licence with respect to that
class licensee.

 (2) However, a Licensing Officer may, in lieu of revoking a
licensee’s licence or disapplying a class licence with respect to a class
licensee under subsection (1), do (without compensation) any one or
more of the following:

       (a) censure the licensee or class licensee in writing;

       (b) direct the licensee or class licensee to do, or to refrain from
            doing, such things as are specified in a direction to rectify
            any contravention or non‑compliance mentioned in
            subsection (1)(a);

       (c) suspend the licence or the application of the class licence
            (as the case may be) for not more than 6 months;

       (d) modify any condition of the licence; and section 54(2), (3)
            and (4) does not apply to or in relation to the modification
            to the condition of the licence;

       (e) order the reduction of the maximum or an increase of the
            minimum number or quantity, or both, of guns, major parts
            of a gun, gun accessories, explosives, explosive precursors,
            weapons or noxious substances which the licensee, during

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
108  NO. 3 OF 2021

            the validity period of the licence or any part of that period
            may involve when carrying on the regulated activity.

 (3) In taking any regulatory action under this section in relation to
the conviction of a licensee or any person for a criminal offence, the
Licensing Officer may accept the licensee’s or person’s conviction as
final.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (1)(c), a corporation is unable to
pay its debts if it is a corporation which is deemed to be so unable
under section 125(2) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
Act 2018 (Act 40 of 2018).

Regulatory action can continue despite licence expiry, etc.

 67.—(1) Subject to section 68, regulatory action started under
section 66 against a licensee or class licensee may continue, and a
Licensing Officer may exercise any powers under subsection (2), in
relation to a former licensee or former class licensee, despite either of
the following events:

       (a) the date of expiry of the licensee’s licence;

       (b) the date the class licence stops applying.

 (2) The Licensing Officer may, if satisfied of any ground mentioned
in section 66(1), do (without compensation) any one or more of the
following:

       (a) censure the former licensee or former class licensee in
            writing;

       (b) direct the former licensee or former class licensee to do, or
            to refrain from doing, such things as are specified in a
            direction to rectify any contravention or non‑compliance
            mentioned in section 66(1)(a) by the former licensee or
            former class licensee when the licence or class licence was
            in force.

 (3) Section 66(3) and (4) applies to regulatory action under this
section as it applies to any regulatory action under that section.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 109

 (4) A person to whom a direction is given under subsection (2)(b)
commits an offence if the person intentionally or negligently fails to
comply with the direction, and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual — to a fine not exceeding
            $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            12 months or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual — to a fine not
            exceeding $20,000.

Proceedings for regulatory action

 68.—(1) Before exercising any powers under section 66(1) or (2) or
67(2), the Licensing Officer must give written notice to the licensee
or class licensee or the former licensee or former class licensee
concerned —

       (a) stating that the Licensing Officer intends to take regulatory
            action against the licensee or class licensee or former
            licensee or former class licensee;

       (b) specifying the type of action in section 66(1) or (2) or 67(2)
            that the Licensing Officer proposes to take, and each
            instance of contravention or non‑compliance that is the
            subject of the action; and

       (c) specifying the time (being not less than 14 days from the
            date of service of notice on the licensee or class licensee, or
            former licensee or former class licensee, as the case may
            be) within which written representations may be made to
            the Licensing Officer with respect to the proposed action.

 (2) The Licensing Officer may, after considering any written
representation under subsection (1)(c), decide to take such
regulatory action in section 66(1) or (2) or 67(2) as the Licensing
Officer considers appropriate.

 (3) Where a Licensing Officer has made any decision under
subsection (2) against any licensee or class licensee, or former
licensee or former class licensee, the Licensing Officer must serve on
the licensee or class licensee, or former licensee or former class
licensee (as the case may be) concerned a notice of its decision.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
110  NO. 3 OF 2021

 (4) Subject to section 77(4), a decision to revoke a licence or
disapply a class licence under section 66(1), or to impose a regulatory
action in section 66(2) or 67(2), which is specified in the notice given
under subsection (3), takes effect from the date on which that notice is
given, or on such other date as may be specified in the notice.

 (5) Any suspension or revocation of any licence or disapplication of
a class licence under section 66 with respect to a licensee or class
licensee does not affect —

       (a) the enforcement by any person of any right or claim against
            the licensee or class licensee or the former licensee or
            former class licensee, as the case may be; or

       (b) the enforcement by the licensee or class licensee or the
            former licensee or former class licensee (as the case may
            be) of any right or claim against any person.

                    Division 2 — Enforcement powers

Purpose for which enforcement powers are exercisable

 69.—(1) The Licensing Officer or an authorised officer may
exercise the powers set out in this Division for any of the
following purposes:

       (a) to determine whether there are grounds for taking any
            regulatory action against a licensee or class licensee;

       (b) to determine whether information given to the Licensing
            Officer under Part 4 or this Part, or any standard or
            direction under any provision of this Act, is correct.

 (2) A compliance officer may exercise the powers set out in this
Division where specified, but subject to section 80(7) and to the limits
in the authorisation issued under section 80 in respect of the
compliance officer; and any reference in this Part to a compliance
officer is a reference to a compliance officer who is so authorised.

Powers of entry, etc., at premises

 70.—(1) A Licensing Officer, an authorised officer or a compliance
officer may, in accordance with subsection (2), enter without using

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 111

force any premises occupied by a relevant person which the
Licensing Officer, authorised officer or compliance officer (as the
case may be) reasonably believes to be used for or in connection with
the carrying on of any regulated activity, and do all or any of the
following at the premises:

       (a) to examine any thing or observe any activity conducted in
            or on the premises;

       (b) to inspect the premises and any thing in or on the premises;

       (c) to make a still or moving image or recording of the
            premises and any thing in or on the premises;

       (d) to inspect any document in the premises and take extracts
            from, or make copies of, any such document;

       (e) to take into or onto the premises such equipment and
            materials as the authorised officer requires for the purpose
            of exercising powers in relation to the premises;

        (f) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises;

       (g) to require any individual found in or on the premises to
            answer any question (to the best of that individual’s
            knowledge, information and belief) and to provide any
            document or information that the Licensing Officer,
            authorised officer or compliance officer (as the case may
            be) reasonably requires for any of the purposes of
            section 69(1).

 (2) A Licensing Officer, an authorised officer or a compliance
officer may enter any premises which are not a place on or at which a
licensee or class licensee carries on a regulated activity, or carries out
any activity in connection with the provision of that regulated
activity, to exercise any of the powers in subsection (1), only with the
consent of the occupier of those premises.

 (3) The power under subsection (1)(f) to operate electronic
equipment in or on any premises includes the power —

       (a) to use a disk, tape or other storage device that is in or on the
            premises and can be used with the equipment or in
            association with the equipment;

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
112  NO. 3 OF 2021

       (b) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises to put
            the relevant data in documentary form and remove the
            documents so produced from the premises; and

       (c) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises to
            transfer the relevant data to a disk, tape or other storage
            device that —

               (i) is brought to the premises for the exercise of the
                   power; or

              (ii) is in or on the premises and the use of which for that
                   purpose has been agreed in writing by the occupier of
                   the premises,

       (c) and to remove the disk, tape or other storage device from
            those premises.

 (4) The power to require an individual to provide any document or
information under subsection (1)(g) includes the power —

       (a) to require that individual to provide an explanation of the
            document or information;

       (b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
            that individual to state, to the best of the individual’s
            knowledge and belief, where it is; and

       (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
            form, to require the information to be made available to the
            Licensing Officer, authorised officer or compliance officer
            concerned in legible form.

 (5) In this section, “relevant person” means —

       (a) a person to whom a licence is granted for any regulated
            activity;

       (b) a person who is a class licensee for any regulated activity;

       (c) an individual who is or was an officer or a representative
            staff of a person mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b);

       (d) an individual who is or was an employee of a person
            mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) with respect to that
            regulated activity; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 113

       (e) a person whom a Licensing Officer, an authorised officer
            or a compliance officer suspects on reasonable grounds is
            or was carrying on regulated activity, or an agent of a
            person who is or was carrying on regulated activity.

Powers in relation to conveyances

 71.—(1) A Licensing Officer, an authorised officer or a compliance
officer may do all or any of the following in relation to a conveyance
which the Licensing Officer, authorised officer or compliance officer
(as the case may be) reasonably believes to be used for or in
connection with the carrying on of any regulated activity:

       (a) to stop and detain the conveyance for as long as is
            reasonably necessary for the exercise of any other power
            under this section;

       (b) to inspect the conveyance and any equipment in or on the
            conveyance;

       (c) to make a still or moving image or recording of the
            conveyance and anything in or on the conveyance;

       (d) to inspect any document in the conveyance and take
            extracts from, or make copies of, any such document;

       (e) to operate a computer or other thing in or on the
            conveyance;

        (f) to require the driver, pilot or other person in charge of the
            conveyance, or a person in possession of the conveyance,
            to answer any question (to the best of that person’s or
            individual’s knowledge, information and belief) and to
            provide any document or information that the Licensing
            Officer, authorised officer or compliance officer
            reasonably requires for the purposes of section 69(1).

 (2) The power to require a person or an individual to provide any
document or information under subsection (1)(f) includes the
power —

       (a) to require that person or individual to provide an
            explanation of the document or information;

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
114  NO. 3 OF 2021

       (b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
            that person or individual to state, to the best of the person’s
            or individual’s knowledge and belief, where it is; and

       (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
            form, to require the information to be made available to the
            Licensing Officer, authorised officer or compliance officer
            concerned in legible form.

Power to obtain information

 72.—(1) A Licensing Officer, an authorised officer or a compliance
officer may by written notice require any licensee or class licensee to
provide, within a reasonable period specified in the notice, and in
such form and manner as may be specified in the notice, all
documents and information which —

       (a) relate to any matter which the Licensing Officer,
            authorised officer or compliance officer considers
            necessary for any of the purposes of section 69(1); and

       (b) are —

               (i) within the knowledge of that licensee or class
                   licensee, as the case may be; or

              (ii) in the custody or under the control of the licensee or
                   class licensee, as the case may be.

 (2) The power to require a licensee or class licensee to provide any
document or information under subsection (1) includes the power —

       (a) to require that licensee or class licensee, or any individual
            who is or was a responsible executive, an agent or a
            representative staff of the licensee or class licensee (as the
            case may be), to provide an explanation of the document or
            information;

       (b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
            that licensee, class licensee or individual to state, to the
            best of the knowledge and belief of that licensee, class
            licensee or individual (as the case may be), where it is; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 115

       (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
            form, to require the information to be made available to the
            Licensing Officer, authorised officer or compliance officer
            concerned in legible form.

 (3) The Licensing Officer, authorised officer or compliance officer
(as the case may be) is entitled without payment to keep for the
purposes of section 69(1) any document or information, or any copy
or extract thereof, provided to him or her under subsection (1).

Offences

 73.—(1) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do
anything required of the person by a Licensing Officer, an authorised
officer or a compliance officer under section 70(1) or 71(1), or by a
notice under section 72(1), shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

 (2) A person —

       (a) who intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any
            document or information which the person has been
            required by a Licensing Officer, an authorised officer or
            a compliance officer under section 70(1)(g) or 71(1)(f), or
            by a notice under section 72(1) to provide; or

       (b) who, in providing any document or information required
            by a Licensing Officer, an authorised officer or a
            compliance officer under section 70(1)(g) or 71(1)(f), or
            by a notice under section 72(1), makes any statement
            which the person knows or ought reasonably to know that,
            or is reckless as to whether, it is false or misleading in a
            material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (3) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is a
defence for the accused to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that —

       (a) the person does not possess the document or information
            required; and

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
116  NO. 3 OF 2021

       (b) the person has taken all reasonable steps available to the
            person to obtain the document or information required and
            has been unable to obtain it.

 (4) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of subsection (1), it is a
reasonable excuse for a person to refuse or fail to provide any
information, produce any document or answer any question if doing
so might tend to incriminate that person.

Composition of offences

 74.—(1) A Licensing Officer or an authorised officer may
compound any offence under this Act that is prescribed as a
compoundable offence by collecting from a person reasonably
suspected of having committed the offence a sum not exceeding
the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                    PART 7

                                   APPEALS

Interpretation of this Part

 75. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “appealable decision” means any of the following decisions of
         the Licensing Officer:

              (a) a decision refusing the grant of a licence under
                   section 51;

              (b) a decision under section 53 imposing a condition in a
                   licensee’s licence;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 117

              (c) a modification under section 54 of a condition in a
                   licensee’s licence;

              (d) a refusal of consent under section 55 to a transfer or
                   an assignment of a licence;

              (e) a direction under section 63;
              (f) a decision under section 66(1) to revoke a licence or

                   disapply a class licence;
              (g) a decision under section 66(2) or 67(2) to impose a

                   regulatory action against a licensee or class licensee;
      “appellant” means the following in relation to an appealable

         decision:
              (a) an applicant for the grant of a licence, where the
                   appealable decision is within paragraph (a) of the
                   definition of “appealable decision”;
              (b) a licensee, where the appealable decision is within
                   paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of the definition of
                   “appealable decision”;
              (c) a licensee or class licensee or a former licensee or
                   former class licensee, where the appealable decision
                   is within paragraph (e), (f) or (g) of the definition of
                   “appealable decision”.

Appeal to Minister
 76.—(1) An appellant who is aggrieved by an appealable decision

may appeal to the Minister against the decision in accordance with
this section.

 (2) An appeal under this section must be in writing and specify the
grounds on which it is made, and be made —

       (a) for an appealable decision that is under section 54 about
            modification of a condition in a licence — within 28 days
            after the date the decision appealed against is given to the
            appellant; and

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
118  NO. 3 OF 2021

       (b) for any other appealable decision — within 14 days after
            the date the decision appealed against is given to the
            appellant.

 (3) The Minister may reject an appeal of an appellant who fails to
comply with subsection (2).

Decision on appeal

 77.—(1) After considering an appeal under section 76, the Minister
may —

       (a) reject the appeal and confirm the appealable decision; or

       (b) allow the appeal and reverse the appealable decision.

 (2) The Minister’s decision on an appeal is final.

 (3) Every appellant must be notified of the Minister’s decision
under subsection (2).

 (4) An appeal against an appealable decision does not affect the
operation of the decision appealed against or prevent the taking of
action to implement the decision, and unless otherwise directed by
the Minister under this subsection, the decision appealed against must
be complied with until the determination of the appeal.

                                    PART 8

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Administration of Act by licensing officer

 78.—(1) The Minister may appoint one or more public officers as
Licensing Officers responsible for the administration of this Act,
either generally or for any particular provision of this Act.

 (2) In appointing a public officer as a Licensing Officer under
subsection (1), the Minister may limit when, where in Singapore or
the circumstances in which the Licensing Officer may exercise
powers and licensing and regulatory functions under this Act with
respect to regulated activities, and to otherwise administer this Act.

 (3) No liability shall lie personally against a Licensing Officer, an
authorised officer, a compliance officer or any other person acting

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 119

under the direction of a Licensing Officer for anything which is done
or purported to be done, or omitted to be done, in good faith and with
reasonable care in —

       (a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
            Act; or

       (b) the performance or purported performance of any function
            under this Act.

Authorised officers
 79.—(1) A Licensing Officer may, in relation to any provision of

this Act, appoint —
       (a) any public officer; or
       (b) any officer or employee of a public authority,

to be an authorised officer for the purposes of that provision, either
generally or in a particular case.

 (2) A Licensing Officer may delegate the exercise of all or any of
the powers conferred or duties imposed upon the Licensing Officer
by any provision of this Act (except the power of delegation
conferred by this subsection) to any authorised officer, subject to such
conditions or limitations as the Licensing Officer may specify; and
any reference in that provision of this Act to the Licensing Officer
includes a reference to such an authorised officer.

Compliance officers
 80.—(1) A Licensing Officer may, with the general or specific

approval of the Minister, appoint an individual who —
       (a) is at least 18 years of age;
       (b) is not an employee of a public authority;
       (c) is not a public officer; and
       (d) has suitable qualifications or experience,

to be a compliance officer to assist the Licensing Officer or an
authorised officer in the exercise of enforcement powers in Division 2
of Part 6 in any particular area in Singapore.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
120  NO. 3 OF 2021

 (2) A Licensing Officer, may, for any reason that appears to the
Licensing Officer, to be sufficient, at any time revoke an individual’s
appointment as a compliance officer.

 (3) A Licensing Officer must issue to each compliance officer an
identification card, which must be carried at all times by the
compliance officer when exercising powers under this Act.

 (4) A compliance officer whose appointment as such ceases must
return any identification card issued to him or her under
subsection (3) to a Licensing Officer.

 (5) A Licensing Officer must also issue to each compliance officer,
a written authorisation specifying such of the powers expressly
specified in Division 2 of Part 6 as exercisable by a compliance
officer, as what the compliance officer may exercise, and no other
powers.

 (6) The authorisation of the Licensing Officer under subsection (5)
issued to a compliance officer may also do all or any of the following:

       (a) limit the powers mentioned in subsection (1) that the
            compliance officer may exercise;

       (b) limit when, and where in the particular area in Singapore,
            the compliance officer may exercise those powers or any of
            them;

       (c) limit the circumstances in which the compliance officer
            may exercise those powers or any of them.

 (7) To avoid doubt, a Licensing Officer cannot authorise under this
section a compliance officer —

       (a) to detain or arrest any individual;

       (b) to search any place or individual;

       (c) to seize any property; and

       (d) if the compliance officer is a licensee or class licensee, to
            exercise any power in Division 2 of Part 6 in relation to —

               (i) another licensee holding the same class of licence as
                   the compliance officer or an applicant for the same
                   class of licence;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 121

              (ii) another class licensee subject to the same class
                   licence as the compliance officer; or

             (iii) an employer or a principal, contractor or relative of
                   the compliance officer.

 (8) The powers that a compliance officer may be authorised under
this section to exercise may be exercised only —

       (a) on production of the identification card issued under
            subsection (3);

       (b) to the extent authorised by a Licensing Officer under
            subsection (5); and

       (c) as directed (generally or specially) by a Licensing Officer
            or an authorised officer.

 (9) A compliance officer who is authorised under subsection (5) to
exercise any power expressly specified in that authorisation as
exercisable by a compliance officer is deemed to be a public servant
for the purposes of the Penal Code when exercising that power.

 (10) To avoid doubt, a compliance officer does not cease to be
acting on the direction of a Licensing Officer or an authorised officer
by reason only that the Licensing Officer or authorised officer is not
present at all times.

 (11) An individual who is appointed as a compliance officer under
subsection (1) does not, by virtue only of the appointment, become an
agent of the Government.

 (12) In this section, “relative”, in relation to another individual,
means the individual’s spouse, parent (including a step‑parent), child
(including an adopted or a stepchild) or sibling.

Offences by corporations

 81.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
122  NO. 3 OF 2021

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

              (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
                   of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                   the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the corporation; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                   type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                   take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                   commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters V and VA of the Penal Code; or

       (b) the Evidence Act (Cap. 97) or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 123

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —
      “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership;
      “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
         partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the corporation, and includes —
              (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and
              (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
                   members, any of those members as if the member
                   were a director of the corporation;
      “reasonable steps”, in relation to the commission of an offence,
         includes, but is not limited to, such action (if any) of the
         following kinds as is reasonable in all the circumstances:
              (a) action towards —
                     (i) assessing the corporation’s compliance with
                          the provision creating the offence; and
                     (ii) ensuring that the corporation arranged regular
                          professional assessments of its compliance
                          with the provision;
              (b) action towards ensuring that the corporation’s
                   employees, agents and contractors are provided
                   with information, training, instruction and
                   supervision appropriate to them to enable them to
                   comply with the provision creating the offence so far
                   as the provision is relevant to them;
              (c) action towards ensuring that —
                     (i) the equipment and other resources; and
                     (ii) the structures, work systems and other
                          processes,

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
124  NO. 3 OF 2021

              (c) relevant to compliance with the provision creating
                   the offence are appropriate in all the circumstances;

              (d) action towards creating and maintaining a corporate
                   culture that does not direct, encourage, tolerate or
                   lead to non‑compliance with the provision creating
                   the offence;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with such modifications as the Minister
considers appropriate, to any corporation formed or recognised under
the law of a territory outside Singapore.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 82.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 125

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                   position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                   case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                   offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the unincorporated
                   association or partnership; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the unincorporated association or
                   partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                   be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                   reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                   that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters V and VA of the Penal Code; or

       (b) the Evidence Act or any other law or practice regarding the
            admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
126  NO. 3 OF 2021

this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
         a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
         member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
         and includes —

              (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
                   president, secretary or member of a committee of the
                   unincorporated association; and

              (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

      “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

      “reasonable steps” has the meaning given by section 81;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with such modifications as the Minister
considers appropriate, to any unincorporated association or
partnership formed or recognised under the law of a territory
outside Singapore.

Jurisdiction of courts

 83. Despite the Criminal Procedure Code, a District Court or a
Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to try, and has power to impose the
full punishment for, any offence under this Act.

Service of documents

 84.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 127

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;
       (b) by sending it by post to the address specified by the

            individual for the service of documents or, if no address is
            so specified, the individual’s residential address or
            business address;
       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;
       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;
       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual; or
        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.
 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —
       (a) by giving it to any partner, secretary or other similar officer
            of the partnership;
       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by post to, the
            partnership’s business address;
       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
            partnership’s business address; or
       (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
            address.
 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
128  NO. 3 OF 2021

       (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
            body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
            limited liability partnership’s manager;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by post to, the registered
            office or principal office in Singapore of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the registered
            office or principal office in Singapore of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association.

 (5) In addition, a document (other than a summons) permitted or
required by this Act to be served on an individual, a partnership, a
body corporate or an unincorporated association may be served —

       (a) by giving an electronic notice to the individual,
            partnership, body corporate or unincorporated
            association (called in this section an addressee) by the
            addressee’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
            document is available and how the addressee may use the
            addressee’s chosen means of access to access the
            document’s contents; or

       (b) by any other method authorised by the Regulations for the
            service of documents of that kind if the addressee consents
            (expressly or impliedly) to service of a document of that
            kind in that way.

 (6) Service of a document takes effect —

       (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
            successful transmission is received, on the day of
            transmission;

       (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
            becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
            it is sent; or

       (c) if the document is sent by post, 2 days after the day the
            document was posted (even if it is returned undelivered).

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 129

 (7) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email or by an electronic notice at the person’s chosen means of
notification, may be effected only with the person’s prior consent
(express or implied) to service in that way.

 (8) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

 (9) In this section —
      “business address” means —
              (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
                   last known place of business in Singapore; or
              (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
                   liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
                   last known place of business in Singapore;
      “chosen means of access”, for an addressee on whom is or is to
         be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
         means an electronic means the addressee agrees with the
         person giving or serving the document as the means by which
         the addressee may access that document’s contents;
      “chosen means of notification”, for an addressee on whom is or
         is to be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
         means an electronic means that the addressee nominates to
         the person giving or serving the document as the means by
         which the addressee may be notified that such a document
         has been served on the addressee;
      “document” includes a notice or an order permitted or required
         by this Act to be served;
      “last email address” means the last email address given by the
         addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
         document as the email address for the service of documents
         under this Act;
      “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
         place of residence in Singapore.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
130  NO. 3 OF 2021

Disposal of unclaimed guns, etc.

 85.—(1) Where any gun, major part of a gun, gun accessory,
explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or noxious substance is
surrendered to a Licensing Officer, whether or not under section 39, it
becomes unclaimed if, at the end of 30 days after the day on which the
gun, major part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive
precursor, weapon or noxious substance (as the case may be) was so
surrendered —

       (a) there is no person who appears, to the satisfaction of the
            Licensing Officer, to be the owner of the gun, major part of
            a gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive precursor,
            weapon or noxious substance, as the case may be; or

       (b) there is such a person but that person has not exercised his
            or her right to recover the gun, major part of a gun, gun
            accessory, explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or
            noxious substance by a claim.

 (2) Where a gun, a major part of a gun or a gun accessory, an
explosive or explosive precursor, or a weapon or noxious substance
which is surrendered to a Licensing Officer becomes unclaimed, an
authorised officer may, after giving one month’s notice in a
prescribed website of his or her intention to do so —

       (a) sell by public auction or tender the gun, major part of a
            gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive precursor,
            weapon or noxious substance; or

       (b) destroy or otherwise dispose of the gun, major part of a
            gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive precursor,
            weapon or noxious substance, as the case may be.

 (3) However, where it appears to a Licensing Officer that any gun,
major part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive precursor,
weapon or noxious substance which is surrendered is of such a nature
or in such condition that it would be dangerous for the Licensing
Officer to retain custody of it, the Licensing Officer may, before the
end of the period mentioned in subsection (1) and after giving notice
in a prescribed website of his or her intention to do so, cause the gun,

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 131

major part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive precursor,
weapon or noxious substance —

       (a) to be sold (by public auction or otherwise) at once; or
       (b) to be destroyed or otherwise disposed of at once in such

            manner as the Licensing Officer thinks fit.
 (4) The proceeds of a sale by public auction or tender of any gun,
major part of a gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive precursor,
weapon or noxious substance under subsection (2) or (3) must be
applied as follows:

       (a) firstly, in payment of the expenses occasioned by the sale;
       (b) secondly, in payment of storage or other expenses incurred

            by the Licensing Officer in relation to the gun, major part
            of a gun, gun accessory, explosive, explosive precursor,
            weapon or noxious substance;
       (c) thirdly, by payment of the balance into the Consolidated
            Fund.
 (5) A purchaser of any gun, major part of a gun, gun accessory,
explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or noxious substance sold in
accordance with subsection (2) or (3) acquires good title to that
article, item or thing.

Act binds Government
 86.—(1) Subject to section 87, 88 or 89, this Act binds the

Government, but nothing in this Act renders the Government liable to
prosecution for an offence under this Act.

 (2) To avoid doubt, no person is immune from prosecution for any
offence under this Act by reason only that the person is engaged to
provide services to the Government or is acting in any other similar
capacity for, or on behalf of, the Government.

General exemption for law enforcement, etc.
 87.—(1) An individual does not commit an offence under this Act

only because of something done by the individual in the exercise or
discharge of the individual’s powers or duties under written law as

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
132  NO. 3 OF 2021

any of the following and to the extent the power or duty requires him
or her to possess, handle or use a gun, a major part of a gun or a gun
accessory, an explosive or explosive precursor, a weapon or noxious
substance or operate a shooting range:

       (a) a member of the Singapore Police Force, including as an
            individual appointed under section 13 of the Police
            Force Act (Cap. 235) to serve as a temporary constable;

       (b) a member of the Special Constabulary constituted under
            Part VIII of the Police Force Act;

       (c) a member of an Auxiliary Police Force created under the
            Police Force Act;

       (d) an intelligence officer;

       (e) a Commercial Affairs Officer appointed under section 64
            of the Police Force Act;

        (f) an officer of customs within the meaning given by
            section 3(1) of the Customs Act (Cap. 70);

       (g) the Controller of Immigration or an immigration officer
            appointed under section 3 of the Immigration Act
            (Cap. 133);

       (h) the Director of the Central Narcotics Bureau or an officer
            of the Bureau within the meaning of the Misuse of Drugs
            Act (Cap. 185);

        (i) the Director of the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau
            or a CPIB officer within the meaning of the Prevention of
            Corruption Act (Cap. 241);

        (j) a prison officer within the meaning of the Prisons Act
            (Cap. 247);

       (k) a forensic specialist appointed under section 65A of the
            Police Force Act;

        (l) a member of a police service of a foreign country, or a
            visiting force of a foreign country for the purposes of Part 1
            of the Visiting Forces Act (Cap. 344), lawfully present in

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 133

            Singapore pursuant to any treaty, agreement or
            arrangement to which the Government is a party;

      (m) a master or captain, or member of crew or an air marshal,
            of an aircraft with respect to any gun that is required by
            written law to be carried on the aircraft;

       (n) a Licensing Officer, an authorised officer or a compliance
            officer.

 (2) This Act does not apply to or in relation to any gun, explosive or
weapon —

       (a) stored in any hulk or magazine for the storage or deposit of
            explosives, or explosive precursors and in the possession
            or control of the Government or the government of a
            Commonwealth country; or

       (b) on board any vessel belonging to or in the service of the
            Government or any foreign government.

 (3) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person or
class of persons who is not within the class of persons to which
section 88 applies from all or any provision of this Act (except
section 88), either generally or in a particular case and subject to such
conditions as the Minister may impose.

Exemption for defence purposes

 88.—(1) The persons in subsection (2) do not commit an offence
under this Act only because of something done by the person in the
exercise or discharge of the person’s powers or duties to the extent the
power or duty requires the person to possess, handle or use a gun, a
major part of a gun or a gun accessory, an explosive or explosive
precursor, a weapon or noxious substance or operate a shooting range
in connection with any of the following:

       (a) the defence of Singapore, including activities intended to
            support the functions of the Singapore Armed Forces, or
            other activities necessary for the defence and security of
            Singapore;

       (b) the protection of the integrity of Singapore’s territory and
            its borders from serious threats and the protection of

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
134  NO. 3 OF 2021

            Singapore or part of it, or the people of Singapore, from
            terrorism, espionage or other like activities intended or
            likely to obstruct, hinder or interfere with the defence and
            security of Singapore;

       (c) any air or sea operations that the Singapore Armed Forces
            is authorised under section 201B of the Singapore Armed
            Forces Act (Cap. 295) to be deployed;

       (d) the deployment of the Singapore Armed Forces under
            section 201C of the Singapore Armed Forces Act in
            relation to a relevant event (within the meaning of
            section 201C(10) of that Act), but only for the period the
            Singapore Armed Forces is authorised under
            section 201C(1) of that Act to be deployed with respect
            to that relevant event;

       (e) an authorisation under section 201D of the Singapore
            Armed Forces Act for the protection of persons and
            property of any Singapore Armed Forces property which
            has been declared a protected area or a protected place
            under the Infrastructure Protection Act 2017 (Act 41 of
            2017);

        (f) the maintenance of supplies and services essential to the
            life of the community in Singapore or for the conduct of
            exercises relating thereto under the Requisition of
            Resources Act (Cap. 273).

 (2) The persons to whom subsection (1) applies are as follows:

       (a) a member of the Singapore Armed Forces, whether or not
            in regular service or national service, and includes an
            operationally ready national serviceman and a volunteer;

       (b) any person for the time approved by the Minister charged
            with the responsibility for defence in connection with any
            matter in subsection (1)(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) or (f).

Administrative exemption

 89.—(1) A Licensing Officer may exempt, for a period specified in
the exemption, a particular person, place, premises or activity who or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 135

which is not within the class of persons or activities to which
section 88 applies from the operation of any provision of this Act
(except section 88) where the Licensing Officer is personally satisfied
that all of the following apply:

       (a) the risk to public safety and security of providing the
            exemption is minor;

       (b) there are other sufficient safeguards under this Act or any
            other written law, or by other means, to minimise any risk
            to public safety and security in providing the exemption;

       (c) there are requirements in other written law or there are
            other means that deal with the matter to be exempted
            besides the applicable requirements of this Act.

 (2) An exemption under this section —
       (a) must be in writing and given to the particular person
            concerned; and
       (b) need not be published in the Gazette.

Regulations
 90.—(1) The Minister may make regulations necessary or

convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this
Act.

 (2) In particular, the Minister may make regulations for any of the
following:

       (a) classes of licences;
       (b) the form and manner in which, and the time within which,

            an application for the grant of a licence or security
            clearance may be made under this Act;
       (c) the carrying out of inquiries of applicants for a licence or a
            security clearance;
       (d) the fees to be paid in respect of applications for the grant of
            a licence and otherwise in connection with the
            administration of this Act, and for the waiver, reduction
            or refund of fees charged;

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
136  NO. 3 OF 2021

     (e) the records that must be kept by licensees and the provision
          of returns and other information with respect to the
          regulated activities authorised by their respective
          licences, including audio and visual records about those
          activities;

     (f) the storage, identification, maintenance, carrying,
          conveyance, altering, repair, testing and use of guns,
          major parts of a gun, gun accessories, explosives,
          explosive precursors, weapons or noxious substances;

     (g) measures to deal with safety, and safety incidents and
          accidents, involving guns, major parts of a gun, gun
          accessories, explosives, explosive precursors, weapons,
          noxious substances, shooting ranges or paintball ranges
          involved in the carrying on of a regulated activity, and
          make provision in relation to mandatory reporting to a
          Licensing Officer those safety incidents and accidents;

     (h) guns and weapons training courses;

     (i) training and supervision in relation to the use of guns,
          explosives or weapons;

     (j) the control and regulation of explosives and explosive
          precursors, including but not limited to the following:

            (i) the handling of explosives or explosive precursors;

           (ii) premises, conveyances, containers and any other
                 equipment, containers or things which are intended
                 for use, are being used or have been used in
                 connection with explosives or explosive precursors;

           (iii) smoking, the lighting or use of fire and any other
                 dangerous, or potentially dangerous, prescribed
                 activities in the vicinity of explosives or explosive
                 precursors;

           (iv) the inspection, examination and testing of explosives
                 or explosive precursors and equipment or containers
                 intended for use or used in connection with
                 explosives or explosive precursors;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 137

              (v) records relating to explosives or explosive precursors
                   and the furnishing of returns and other information
                   relating to explosives or explosive precursors;

       (k) the approval of ranges or grounds of shooting range
            operators or paintball range operators as approved shooting
            ranges or paintball ranges, including applications for, and
            conditions of, approval of such ranges or grounds.

 (3) Regulations made under this section may —
       (a) make different provisions for different classes or
            descriptions of persons, or guns, major parts of a gun,
            gun accessories, explosives, explosive precursors,
            weapons, noxious substances, shooting ranges or
            paintball ranges, or different circumstances;
       (b) prescribe the offences under this Act that may be
            compounded;
       (c) create offences for a contravention of any provision of the
            Regulations, the penalty for which on conviction may be a
            fine not exceeding $50,000 or imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 18 months or both; and
       (d) provide for such saving, transitional and other
            consequential, incidental and supplemental provisions as
            are necessary or expedient for the purposes of this Act.

Amendment of Schedules
 91. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend the First or

Second Schedule.

Presentation to Parliament
 92. All subsidiary legislation made under this Act must be

presented to Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the
Gazette.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
138  NO. 3 OF 2021

                                    PART 9

                  AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS
                        AND FINAL PROVISIONS

Amendments to Arms Offences Act

 93. The Arms Offences Act (Cap. 14) is amended —

       (a) by deleting the word “arms” wherever it appears in the
            long title and substituting in each case the word “guns”;

       (b) by deleting the definitions of “arm” and “imitation arm” in
            section 2 and substituting the following definitions:

                  “ “carry”, in relation to a gun, includes to have on or
                        about an individual’s person;

                     “gun” has the meaning given by section 3 of the
                        Guns, Explosives and Weapons Control
                        Act 2021, and excludes an imitation gun;

                     “imitation gun” means an object that, regardless of
                        its colour, weight or composition or the presence
                        or absence of any moveable part, substantially
                        duplicates in appearance a gun but that is not a
                        gun, or any such object that is produced and
                        identified as a toy;”;

       (c) by deleting the definitions of “trafficking in arms” and
            “unlawful possession” in section 2 and substituting the
            following definitions:

                  “ “trafficking in guns” means to import, supply or
                        transfer 2 or more guns (whether or not of the
                        same kind) in contravention of the Guns,
                        Explosives and Weapons Control Act 2021, or
                        any Act, repealed by that Act intending to —

                                (a) injure, or endanger the safety of,
                                     another person;

                                (b) cause reasonable fear of the infliction
                                     of injury to another person; or

                                (c) destroy or damage any property;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
   GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 139

             “unlawful possession”, in relation to a gun, means
                possession of a gun when —
                         (a) not authorised by a licence or a class
                              licence under the Guns, Explosives
                              and Weapons Control Act 2021;
                         (b) not in accordance with the conditions
                              of a licence or a class licence
                              mentioned in paragraph (a); and
                         (c) not exempt from the Guns,
                              Explosives and Weapons Control
                              Act 2021 with respect to possession
                              of that gun;”;

(d) by deleting paragraphs (a) and (b) of the definition of “use”
     in section 2 and substituting the following paragraphs:
                 “(a) to fire the gun; or
                  (b) to hold the gun so as to cause a reasonable
                       belief that it will be fired, whether or not it
                       is capable of being fired.”;

(e) by repealing section 3 and substituting the following
     sections:
           “Unlawful possession of gun with criminal intent
            3.—(1) A person commits an offence if —
                  (a) the person carries a gun intending to —
                          (i) injure, or endanger the safety of,
                              another person;
                         (ii) cause reasonable fear of the infliction
                              of injury to another person;
                        (iii) destroy or damage any property; or
                        (iv) facilitate another person to injure, or
                              endanger the safety of, another
                              person, cause reasonable fear of the
                              infliction of injury to another person,

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
140  NO. 3 OF 2021

                                   or destroy or damage any property,
                                   using the gun; and

                       (b) the person is then in unlawful possession of
                            the gun.

                 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under
                subsection (1) shall on conviction be punished with
                imprisonment for a term of not less than 5 years and
                not more than 10 years and shall also be punished
                with caning with not less than 6 strokes.

                 (3) However, where a person who is convicted of an
                offence under subsection (1) is proved to have been
                previously convicted of a scheduled offence, the
                person shall on conviction be punished with
                imprisonment for a term of not less than 5 years
                and not more than 20 years and shall also be punished
                with caning with not less than 6 strokes.

                Aggravating circumstances for scheduled
                offence

                 3A. Where a person is convicted of a scheduled
                offence, the person shall be punished with
                imprisonment for life and shall also be punished
                with caning with not less than 6 strokes if the person,
                at the time of his committing or at the time of his
                apprehension for the scheduled offence —

                       (a) is carrying any gun; and

                       (b) is in unlawful possession of the gun.”;

     (f) by deleting the words “any arm” in section 4(1) and
          substituting the words “any gun intending to injure, or
          endanger the safety of, another person, to cause reasonable
          fear of the infliction of injury or to destroy or damage any
          property”;

     (g) by deleting the words “any arm” in section 4(2) and
          substituting the words “any gun”;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 141

(h) by deleting the words “arm with the intention to cause
     physical injury to any person or property” in section 4(2)
     and substituting the words “gun intending to injure, or
     endanger the safety of, another person, to cause reasonable
     fear of the infliction of injury or to destroy or damage any
     property”;

 (i) by deleting the words “any arm” in the following
     provisions and substituting in each case the words “any
     gun”:

 (i) Sections 4A, 5, 7 and 9;
 (j) by deleting the word “arms” in the section headings of

     sections 4, 4A, 6 and 7 and in section 11 and substituting in
     each case the word “guns”;
(k) by deleting the words “the arm” wherever they appear in
     sections 5 and 9 and substituting in each case the words
     “the gun”;
 (l) by deleting the words “trafficking in arms” in section 6(1)
     and substituting the words “trafficking in guns”;
(m) by deleting subsection (2) of section 6;
(n) by deleting the words “any such arm” in section 7 and
     substituting the words “any such gun”;
(o) by deleting the words “of such arm” in section 7 and
     substituting the words “of the gun”;
(p) by deleting the words “imitation arm” in section 8 and in
     the section heading and substituting in each case the words
     “imitation gun”;
(q) by repealing section 10; and
 (r) by deleting the words “Arms and Explosives Act
     (Cap. 13)” in section 11 and substituting the words
     “Guns, Explosives and Weapons Control Act 2021”.

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
142  NO. 3 OF 2021

Amendments to Corrosive and Explosive Substances and
Offensive Weapons Act

 94. The Corrosive and Explosive Substances and Offensive
Weapons Act (Cap. 65) is amended —

       (a) by inserting, immediately after the definition of “corrosive
            substance” in section 2, the following definition:

                  “ “explosive device” has the meaning given by
                        section 2(1) of the Guns, Explosives and
                        Weapons Control Act 2021;”;

       (b) by deleting the words “bomb, grenade, apparatus, machine,
            implement” in the definition of “explosive substance” in
            section 2 and substituting the words “explosive device”;

       (c) by deleting the words “and any part of such bomb, grenade,
            apparatus, machine or implement” in the definition of
            “explosive substance” in section 2 and substituting the
            words “and any explosive device or part of an explosive
            device”;

       (d) by deleting the definition of “scheduled weapon” in
            section 2 and substituting the following definition:

                  “ “scheduled weapon” means a weapon specified in
                        the First Schedule to the Guns, Explosives and
                        Weapons Control Act 2021.”;

       (e) by inserting, immediately after subsection (1) of section 6,
            the following subsections:

                    “(1A) However, where the offensive weapon
                  involved in the commission of an offence under
                  subsection (1) is a prohibited weapon within the
                  meaning of the Guns, Explosives and Weapons
                  Control Act 2021, the person committing the
                  offence shall be liable on conviction instead to
                  imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years and
                  shall also be punished with caning with not less than
                  6 strokes.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
   GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 143

           (1B) For the purposes of subsection (1) only,
          “lawful purpose” includes —

                 (a) for use at work;
                 (b) for religious reasons;
                  (c) for use in a theatrical production or

                       film‑making for entertainment;
                 (d) for an ornamental display;
                  (e) for the slaughter or hunting of wild animals

                       authorised under written law; and
                  (f) for use in gardening, or in animal

                       husbandry or primary production.”;
(f) by inserting, immediately after subsection (1) of section 7,

    the following subsection:
           “(1A) A person does an act mentioned in

          subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c) otherwise than for a
          lawful purpose if —

                 (a) the person does so involving a scheduled
                       weapon intending to —
                         (i) injure, or endanger the safety of,
                              another person;
                        (ii) cause reasonable fear of the infliction
                              of injury to another person;
                        (iii) destroy or damage any property; or
                        (iv) facilitate another person to injure, or
                              endanger the safety of, another
                              person, cause reasonable fear of the
                              infliction of injury to another person,
                              or destroy or damage any property,
                              using the scheduled weapon; and

                 (b) the person’s possession of the scheduled
                       weapon is then —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
144  NO. 3 OF 2021

     (i) not authorised by a licence or a class
         licence under the Guns, Explosives
         and Weapons Control Act 2021;

     (ii) not in accordance with the conditions
          of a licence or a class licence
          mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i); and

     (iii) not exempt from the Guns,
           Explosives and Weapons Control
           Act 2021 with respect to possession
           of that scheduled weapon.”;

     (g) by inserting, immediately after subsection (3) of section 7,
          the following subsection:

      “(4) A reference to “second or subsequent offence”
     in relation to an offence under subsection (1) is a
     reference to a person who —

     (a) is convicted, or found guilty, of such an
          offence (called the current offence); and

     (b) has been convicted or found guilty of any
          of the following on at least one other earlier
          occasion within the period of 5 years
          immediately before the date on which the
          person is convicted or found guilty of the
          current offence:

     (i) the same offence                                     under
         subsection (1);

     (ii) an offence under subsection (1) as in
          force before the date of
          commencement of section 94(g) of
          the Guns, Explosives and Weapons
          Control Act 2021 and that involved a
          scheduled weapon.”;

     (h) by deleting the word “Schedules” in section 12 and in the
          section heading and substituting in each case the words
          “First Schedule”; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 145

        (i) by repealing the Second Schedule.

Amendments to Criminal Procedure Code
 95.—(1) Section 40(5) of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap. 68,

2012 Ed.) is amended by deleting paragraph (d) and substituting the
following paragraph:

            “(d) the Guns, Explosives and Weapons Control Act 2021
                  or the Arms and Explosives Act (Cap. 13) repealed by
                  that Act;”.

 (2) The Second Schedule to the Criminal Procedure Code is
amended by inserting, immediately after item 7, the following item:

      “7A. Guns, Explosives and Weapons Control Act 2021”.

Related amendment to Miscellaneous Offences (Public Order
and Nuisance) Act

 96. Section 22A of the Miscellaneous Offences (Public Order and
Nuisance) Act (Cap. 184, 1997 Ed.) is amended by inserting,
immediately after subsection (1), the following subsection:

       “(1A) A gun, an explosive or a weapon within the meaning of
      the Guns, Explosives and Weapons Control Act 2021 must not
      be specified under subsection (1).”.

Consequential amendments to other Acts
 97.—(1) Section 7B(4) of the Air Navigation Act (Cap. 6,

2014 Ed.) is amended —
       (a) by deleting the words “Arms and Explosives Act
            (Cap. 13)” and substituting the words “Guns, Explosives
            and Weapons Control Act 2021” in sub‑paragraph (a)(i);
            and
       (b) by deleting sub‑paragraph (iii) of paragraph (a).

 (2) Item 3 of the Third Schedule to the Central Provident Fund Act
(Cap. 36, 2013 Ed.) is deleted and the following item substituted
therefor:

      “3. Guns, Explosives and Weapons Control Act 2021.”.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
146  NO. 3 OF 2021

 (3) Item 2 of the Second Schedule to the Criminal Law (Temporary
Provisions) Act (Cap. 67, 2000 Ed.) is deleted and the following item
substituted therefor:

. “2. Corrosive and Explosive         Section 3 or 4 involving an
            Substances and Offensive  explosive substance.”.
            Weapons Act (Cap. 65)

 (4) Section 77 of the Cross-Border Railways Act 2018 (Act 21 of
2018) is repealed.

 (5) [Deleted by Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

 (6) Section 2 of the Environmental Public Health Act (Cap. 95,
2002 Ed.) is amended by deleting the words “Arms and
Explosives Act (Cap. 13)” in paragraph (b) of the definition of
“dangerous substance” and substituting the words “Guns, Explosives
and Weapons Control Act 2021”.

 (7) Section 2(1) of the Hijacking of Aircraft and Protection of
Aircraft and International Airports Act (Cap. 124, 1997 Ed.) is
amended —

       (a) by inserting the word “or” at the end of paragraph (a)(ii) of
            the definition of “act of violence”; and

       (b) by deleting sub‑paragraph (iii) of paragraph (a) of the
            definition of “act of violence”.

 (8) Section 28(3) of the Infrastructure Protection Act 2017 (Act 41
of 2017) is amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “Arms and Explosives Act
            (Cap. 13)” and substituting the words “Guns, Explosives
            and Weapons Control Act 2021” in paragraph (a)(i) of the
            definition of “dangerous item”; and

       (b) by deleting sub‑paragraph (iii) of paragraph (a) of the
            definition of “dangerous item”.

 (9) Section 2 of the Internal Security Act (Cap. 143, 1985 Ed.) is
amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “any substance declared to be
            deemed an explosive by notification in the Gazette under

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
   GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 147

            section 5 of the Arms and Explosives Act” in paragraph (c)
            of the definition of “explosive” and substituting the words
            “an explosive within the meaning of the Guns, Explosives
            and Weapons Control Act 2021”; and

       (b) by deleting the marginal reference “Cap. 13.” in
            paragraph (c) of the definition of “explosive”.

 (10) The First Schedule to the Internationally Protected Persons Act
(Cap. 145A, 2010 Ed.) is amended by deleting items 2 and 3 and the
heading “Explosive Substances Act (Cap. 100)”.

 (11) Section 96 of the Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore
Act (Cap. 170A, 1997 Ed.) is amended by deleting paragraph (c).

 (12) Section 2 of the Maritime Offences Act (Cap. 170B, 2004 Ed.)
is amended —

       (a) by inserting the word “or” at the end of paragraph (a)(ii) of
            the definition of “act of violence”; and

       (b) by deleting sub‑paragraph (iii) of paragraph (a) of the
            definition of “act of violence”.

 (13) The Schedule to the Organised Crime Act 2015 (Act 26 of
2015) is amended —

       (a) by inserting, immediately after the word “arms” in items 1
            and 2, the words “or guns”;

       (b) by inserting, immediately after item 26, the following
            heading and item:

.  “Corrosive and Explosive     .

   Substances and Offensive

   Weapons Act (Cap. 65)

   26A. Section 3 involving an  Possession of corrosive or
          explosive substance   explosive substance for
                                purpose of causing hurt”;

   (c) by inserting, immediately after the words in the heading
       “Explosive Substances Act (Cap. 100)” above item 32, the
       words “before repeal”; and

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
148                      NO. 3 OF 2021

     (d) by inserting, immediately after item 33, the following
          heading and item:

.    “Guns, Explosives and               .

     Weapons Control Act 2021

     33A. Section 22(1) or (3)           Unauthorised possession or
                                         storage of explosive or
                                         explosive precursor”.

 (14) The First Schedule to the Prisons Act (Cap. 247, 2000 Ed.) is
amended —

     (a) by deleting the words “arms or” in the item relating to
          section 3(1), (2), (3) or (4) under the heading “Arms
          Offences Act (Cap. 14)” and substituting the words “arms,
          guns or”; and

     (b) by inserting, immediately after the words “imitation arm”
          in the item relating to section 8 under the heading “Arms
          Offences Act (Cap. 14)”, the words “or gun”.

 (15) Section 2(1) of the Public Order and Safety (Special Powers)
Act 2018 (Act 26 of 2018) is amended by deleting the words “Arms
and Explosives Act (Cap. 13)” in paragraph (b) of the definition of
“dangerous article” and substituting the words “Guns, Explosives and
Weapons Control Act 2021”.

 (16) Part II of the First Schedule to the Registration of Criminals
Act (Cap. 268, 1985 Ed.) is amended by inserting, immediately after
the item relating to “Foreign Recruiting Act”, the following item:

. “Guns, Explosives and        ... Sections 11(1) or (2), 12(1) or (2),

     Weapons Control Act 2021  13(1), 14, 15(1), 16(1) or (3), 19(1) or

                               (2), 21(1), 22(1) or (3), 23(1) or (4),

                               24(1), 25(1), 26(1) or (2), 29(1), 30(1)

                               or (2), 31, 32(1), 33(1) or (3), 36(1) or

                               (2), 37(1), 38(1), 39(1), 64(9) and

                               73(2).”.

 (17) Section 201C(9) of the Singapore Armed Forces Act
(Cap. 295, 2000 Ed.) is amended by deleting the words “Arms and
Explosives Act (Cap. 13)” in paragraph (e) and substituting the words
“Guns, Explosives and Weapons Control Act 2021”.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
   GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 149

 (18) Section 3 of the Strategic Goods (Control) Act (Cap. 300,
2003 Ed.) is repealed.

 (19) The United Nations Personnel Act (Cap. 339A, 2012 Ed.) is
amended —

       (a) by inserting, immediately before item 1 of the First
            Schedule, the following item:

.  “1A. Section 3 Possession of corrosive or explosive

   substance for purpose of causing hurt”;

   (b) by deleting items 2 and 3 and the heading “Explosive
        Substances Act (Cap. 100)” of the First Schedule; and

   (c) by deleting items 1 and 2 and the heading “Explosive
        Substances Act (Cap. 100)” of the Second Schedule.

Repeal
 98. The following Acts are repealed:
       (a) the Arms and Explosives Act;
       (b) the Dangerous Fireworks Act;
       (c) the Explosive Substances Act.

Saving and transitional provisions

 99.—(1) Subject to the adaptations provided in the Third Schedule,
this Act applies to and in relation to every person holding a licence
that is —

       (a) granted under the repealed Arms and Explosives Act to
            carry on a regulated activity before the date of
            commencement of section 98(a); and

       (b) in force immediately before that date.

 (2) Every person who, immediately before the date of
commencement of section 19, carries on business as a shooting
range operator or paintball range operator may continue to carry on
that business —

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
150  NO. 3 OF 2021

       (a) for 2 months after that date or until an order under
            section 56 is earlier made applicable to the person for
            carrying on business as a shooting range operator or
            paintball range operator; or

       (b) for 2 months after that date and, if within that period the
            person applies for a licence under Part 4 to carry on
            business as a shooting range operator or paintball range
            operator, for a further period ending on the happening of
            the earlier of the following:

               (i) the date on which a Licensing Officer grants a
                   licence to the person to carry on business as a
                   shooting range operator or paintball range operator;

              (ii) the date that the application is finally refused or is
                   withdrawn.

 (3) Despite Part 2, every person who, immediately before the date
of commencement of section 98(b), is by notification made under the
repealed Dangerous Fireworks Act, exempt from all the provisions of
that Act in respect of a regulated activity may continue to carry on
that regulated activity —

       (a) for 2 months after that date or until an order under
            section 56 is earlier made applicable to the person with
            respect to that regulated activity; or

       (b) for 2 months after that date and, if within that period the
            person applies for a licence under Part 4, for a further
            period ending on the happening of the earlier of the
            following:

               (i) the date on which a Licensing Officer grants a
                   licence to the person;

              (ii) the date that the application is finally refused or is
                   withdrawn.

 (4) For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of this
section, the Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend the
Third Schedule by prescribing such additional provisions of a saving

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 151

or transitional nature consequent on the enactment of this section as
the Minister may consider necessary or expedient.

 (5) Nothing in this section or the Third Schedule affects section 16
of the Interpretation Act (Cap. 1).

                             FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                                  Sections 2 and 91

                                         WEAPONS
 1. An arbalest.
 2. An arrow that, if used in the way for which it is designed or adapted, is
capable of being aimed at a target and causing hurt or injury.

                                                                                    [S 354/2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 3. A device (commonly called a crossbow) consisting of a bow fitted
transversely on a stock that has a groove or barrel, designed to direct a dart,
bolt or an arrow whether or not mentioned in item 2.
 4. A crossbow designed for aiming and discharging an arrow (whether or not
mentioned in item 2), a dart, bolt or similar projectile when held in one hand,
commonly called a pistol crossbow.
 5. A bow regardless of its draw weight, and includes a longbow.
 6. A bayonet, being a thrusting, striking or cutting weapon designed to be
attached to a gun.
 7. A sword, being a thrusting, striking or cutting weapon with a long blade
having one or 2 cutting edges and a hilt, and includes the martial arts weapon
known as a “Butterfly Sword”, a machete, parang, bolo, kukri or hooked swords.
 8. A sharp pointed stabbing instrument (other than a sword or bayonet) —

        (a) having —
                  (i) a flat blade with cutting edges (whether serrated or not
                      serrated) along the length of both sides; or
                 (ii) a needle-like blade or spike, the cross section of which is
                      elliptical or has 3 or more sides;

        (b) designed for hand to hand combat, such as —
                  (i) to be held between the fingers or the forefinger and thumb with
                      the handle supported by the palm of the hand and to inflict
                      injury by a punching or pushing movement, such as a push
                      knife or push dagger;

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
152  NO. 3 OF 2021

                            FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

                 (ii) to cause serious injury when thrown, such as a throwing knife;
                      or

                (iii) to be held in the closed fist with the fingers through the handle
                      which serves as a knuckleduster, such as a trench knife; and

        (c) ordinarily capable of being concealed on the person of an individual,

and includes a diving knife, hunting knife, kris, karambit, kirpan or dirk.

 9. A knife comprising a blade or spike and a handle, in respect of which —

        (a) the handle is in 2 sections that fold so as to wholly or partially cover the
             blade or spike when the knife is not in use; and

        (b) the blade or spike can be exposed by gravity or centrifugal force,

and includes a butterfly knife, a “balisong” and a gravity knife.

 10. A knife in respect of which —

        (a) the blade is concealed when folded or recessed into the handle and
             springs or is released into the extended position by the operation of a
             button or other device on the handle; or

        (b) the blade is wholly or partially concealed by a sheath that can be
             withdrawn into the handle of the knife by gravity, centrifugal force or
             by the operation of a button or other device,

and includes a flick knife and a switchblade.

 11. A knife, sometimes known as a wasp knife, which is capable of injecting a
ball of compressed gas that freezes both human and animal tissues and organs
surrounding the point of penetration or injection.

 12. An article comprising a number of points, blades or spikes pointing
outwardly from a central axis and capable of causing serious injury when thrown,
such as throwing stars and shuriken.

 13. A device or instrument (commonly called a knuckleduster) designed to be
worn across the knuckles of a hand so as to —

        (a) increase the force or impact of a punch or blow when striking another
             with the hand; or

        (b) protect the knuckles from injury,

and includes a weighted or studded glove, but not a boxing glove.

 14. A spear, being a thrusting, throwing, striking or cutting weapon to be
propelled by human power without the use of any device, and includes a halberd,
glaive and a martial arts weapon called “Guandao” or “Yanyuedao”.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 153

                            FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
 15. A spearhead for a spear described in item 14.
 16. A scythe, or sickle-shaped article designed as a weapon, that —

        (a) has a fixed or folding blade; and
        (b) may or may not have a chain attached,
and includes the martial arts weapon known as “Kama”.
 17. An article consisting of a handle and an edged blade, joined by a chain or a
combination of chain and metal pieces or steel rods, designed to be used as a whip,
including the martial arts weapon commonly known as “Chinese whip”, “whip
spear”, “7 piece iron chain”, “9 piece iron chain”, “Bian Tzu Chiang” or “Lien Tzu
Chiang”.
 18. An article consisting of a blade or blades with cord, rope or chain attached
for the purpose of enabling the blade to be thrown and retrieved, including the
martial arts weapon known as “Shoge”, “ninja Kyoketsu‑Shoge” or “Kyoketsu
Shoge”.
 19. A “Sai” or “Jitte”, being a short, tapered, metal rod, dull at the point, with
flared metal prongs guarding the handle.
 20. An article that consists of 2 sticks, rods or batons joined by a cord, rope or
chain, including the martial arts weapon known as “Nunchaku”.
 21. An article consisting of a chain, rope or cord with a wooden or metal baton,
stick or rod attached at each end, including the martial arts weapons known as
“Kasari‑Fundo”, “Kusari‑Fundo” and “Manrikigusari”.
 22. An axe, including a tomahawk, a “Ge”, a parashu or an “Ono”.
 23. A blow gun or blow pipe, being a hollow tube or similar device out of which
an arrow or a dart or hard pellet or projectile is shot by use of breath expelled from
the mouth.

                                                                                    [S 354/2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 24. A dart designed to be shot out of a blow gun or blow pipe by use of breath
expelled from the mouth.

                                                                                    [S 354/2025 wef 01/07/2025]

                           SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                                  Sections 4 and 91

                              EXPLOSIVE PRECURSORS
 1. Ammonium nitrate, or any mixture of components one of which is
ammonium nitrate, but not including any of the following:

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
154  NO. 3 OF 2021

                          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

        (a) aqueous solutions containing less than 60%, weight in weight, of
             ammonium nitrate;

        (b) any material in solid form comprising a mixture of components, one of
             which is ammonium nitrate, where the nitrogen content derived from
             ammonium nitrate is less than 28% by weight of the said mixture.

 2. Ammonium perchlorate.

 3. Barium nitrate, not including preparations and solutions containing less than
10%, weight in weight, of barium nitrate.

 4. Guanidine nitrate.

 5. Hydrogen peroxide, not including preparations and solutions containing not
more than 20%, weight in weight, of hydrogen peroxide.

 6. Potassium chlorate.

 7. Potassium nitrate, not including preparations and solutions containing less
than 5%, weight in weight, of potassium nitrate or a combination of both
potassium nitrate and sodium nitrate.

 8. Potassium nitrite, not including aqueous solutions containing less than 5%,
weight in weight, of potassium nitrite.

 9. Potassium perchlorate.

 10. Sodium chlorate.

 11. Sodium nitrate, not including preparations and solutions containing less than
5%, weight in weight, of sodium nitrate or a combination of both sodium nitrate
and potassium nitrate.

 12. Sodium nitrite, not including aqueous solutions containing less than 5%,
weight in weight, of sodium nitrite.

 13. Sodium perchlorate.

 14. Perchloric acid.

 15. Tetranitromethane.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 155

                            THIRD SCHEDULE

                                                                                                           Section 99

                  SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

 1.—(1) Every licence that —

        (a) is granted, before the date of commencement of section 98(a), under
             Part II of the repealed Arms and Explosives Act (Cap. 13) to a person
             for the manufacture, possession, transfer of possession, import or
             export of any unmarked plastic explosive; and

        (b) is in force immediately before that date,

is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to continue as if it
were a licence granted under Part 4 to the person authorising that person to
correspondingly manufacture, store or possess, supply, import or export the
unmarked plastic explosive, until that licence expires or is earlier revoked under
section 66.

 (2) Every licence that —

        (a) is granted, before the date of commencement of section 98(a), under
             Part III of the repealed Arms and Explosives Act to a person for —

                  (i) the possession or having control of any gun or component part
                      of a gun, arms that are weapons, explosives, poisonous or
                      noxious gases or noxious substances;

                 (ii) the import of any gun or component part of a gun, arms that are
                      weapons, explosives, poisonous or noxious gases or noxious
                      substances;

                (iii) the export of any gun or component part of a gun, arms that are
                      weapons, explosives, naval or military stores, poisonous or
                      noxious gases or noxious substances;

                (iv) the manufacture of guns or component parts of a gun, arms that
                      are weapons, explosives, poisonous or noxious gases or
                      noxious substances; or

                 (v) the dealing in guns or component parts of a gun, arms that are
                      weapons, explosives, poisonous or noxious gases or noxious
                      substances; and

        (b) is in force immediately before that date,

is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to continue as if it
were a licence granted under Part 4 to the person authorising that person to
correspondingly store or possess, import or export, manufacture or supply those

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
156  NO. 3 OF 2021

                           THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

guns or major parts of a gun, gun accessories, weapons, explosives or noxious
substances, until that licence expires or is earlier revoked under section 66.

 (3) Every licence that —

        (a) is granted, before the date of commencement of section 98(a), under
             section 21A of the repealed Arms and Explosives Act to a person for
             the possession or keeping under his or her control, or for the import,
             export, manufacture or dealing in, any explosive precursor; and

        (b) is in force immediately before that date,

is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to continue as if it
were a licence granted under Part 4 to the person authorising that person to
correspondingly store or possess, import or export, manufacture or supply the
explosive precursor, until that licence expires or is earlier revoked under
section 66.

 2. Every premises —

        (a) that are —

                  (i) licensed, before the date of commencement of section 98(a),
                      under section 21D of the repealed Arms and Explosives Act for
                      the storage or keeping of any explosive precursor; or

                 (ii) an authorised magazine under the Arms and Explosives
                      (Explosives) Rules (Cap. 13, R 2) for the storage of
                      explosives; and

        (b) that are so licensed or an authorised magazine immediately before that
             date,

are, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to continue as if
they were premises approved under section 22(3)(a), until that licence or
authorisation expires.

 3. Sections 66 and 67 do not apply to any proceedings with a view to suspension
or cancellation of a licence mentioned in paragraph 1(1), (2) or (3) that are —

        (a) started in exercise of powers under section 21G of the repealed Arms
             and Explosives Act; and

        (b) pending immediately before the date of commencement of
             section 98(a),

and those proceedings may be continued under that Act as if section 98(a) had not
been enacted.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 157

                           THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
 4. Where an appeal has been made to the Minister —

        (a) under section 21H of the repealed Arms and Explosives Act before the
             date of commencement of section 98(a); and

        (b) the appeal has not been dealt with or disposed of immediately before
             that date,

the appeal may continue to be dealt with under the repealed Arms and Explosives
Act as if section 98(a) had not been enacted.
 5.—(1) Every storage licence under Part 6 of the Fire Safety Act 1993 that —

        (a) is granted to a person before the date of commencement of
             section 22(1), for the storage or keeping of any petroleum and
             flammable material which is an explosive; and

        (b) is in force immediately before that date,
is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to continue as if it
were a licence granted under Part 4 to the person authorising that person to store or
possess that explosive, until that licence expires or is earlier revoked under
section 66.
 (2) Every premises that are, immediately before the date of commencement of
section 22(3), licensed premises under Part 6 of the Fire Safety Act 1993 for the
storage or keeping of any petroleum and flammable material which is an
explosive, are, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to
continue as if they were premises approved under section 22(3)(a) by a Licensing
Officer for the storage of that explosive, until the storage licence for the licensed
premises expires or is earlier revoked under section 66.

                                                                                    [S 355/2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 6. Every licence under Part 6 of the Fire Safety Act 1993 that —
        (a) is granted to a person —
                  (i) before the date of commencement of section 24(1), for the
                      import of any petroleum and flammable material which is an
                      explosive; or
                 (ii) before the date of commencement of section 25(1), for the
                      transport of (other than as a driver of a road vehicle) any
                      petroleum and flammable material which is an explosive; and
        (b) is in force immediately before that date,

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
158  NO. 3 OF 2021

                           THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to continue as if it
were a licence granted under Part 4 to the person authorising that person to
correspondingly import or convey that explosive.

                                                                                    [S 355/2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 7.—(1) Despite section 43, a person holding a licence continued by paragraph 6
as if a licence granted under Part 4, is eligible to continue to hold it for one year
after that date.

 (2) Sub-paragraph (1) ceases to apply if the person’s licence under Part 6 of the
Fire Safety Act 1993 (continued as if it were a licence granted under Part 4) is
revoked under section 66 or expires without renewal.

                                                                                    [S 355/2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 8.—(1) Every person who, immediately before the date of commencement of
section 12, is carrying on a business involving the disposing of any gun, major part
of a gun, or gun accessory, may continue to dispose of the gun, major part of a gun,
or gun accessory —

        (a) for 6 months after that date or until an order under section 56 is earlier
             made applicable to the person for disposing of the gun, major part of a
             gun, or gun accessory, as the case may be; or

        (b) for 6 months after that date and, if within that period the person applies
             for a licence under Part 4 to dispose of that gun, major part of a gun, or
             gun accessory, then for a further period ending on the happening of the
             earlier of the following:

                  (i) the date on which a Licensing Officer grants a licence to the
                      person to dispose of that gun, major part of a gun, or gun
                      accessory, as the case may be;

                 (ii) the date that the application is finally refused or is withdrawn.

 (2) Every person who, immediately before the date of commencement of
section 23, is carrying on a business involving the disposing of any explosive
precursor, may continue to dispose of that explosive precursor —

        (a) for 6 months after that date or until an order under section 56 is earlier
             made applicable to the person for disposing of that explosive
             precursor; or

        (b) for 6 months after that date and, if within that period the person applies
             for a licence under Part 4 to dispose of that explosive precursor, then
             for a further period ending on the happening of the earlier of the
             following:

                  (i) the date on which a Licensing Officer grants a licence to the
                      person to dispose of that explosive precursor;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 159

                           THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

                 (ii) the date that the application is finally refused or is withdrawn.

 (3) Every person who, immediately before the date of commencement of
section 30, is carrying on a business involving the disposing of any weapon or
noxious substance may continue to dispose of that weapon or noxious
substance —

        (a) for 6 months after that date or until an order under section 56 is earlier
             made applicable to the person for disposing of that weapon or noxious
             substance, as the case may be; or

        (b) for 6 months after that date and, if within that period the person applies
             for a licence under Part 4 to dispose of that weapon or noxious
             substance, then for a further period ending on the happening of the
             earlier of the following:

                  (i) the date on which a Licensing Officer grants a licence to the
                      person to dispose of that weapon or noxious substance, as the
                      case may be;

                 (ii) the date that the application is finally refused or is withdrawn.

                                                                                    [S 355/2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 9.—(1) Every person who, immediately before the date of commencement of
section 15, is carrying on a business involving the conveying of any gun, major
part of a gun, or gun accessory may continue to convey that gun, major part of a
gun, or gun accessory —

        (a) for 6 months after that date or until an order under section 56 is earlier
             made applicable to the person for conveying that gun, major part of a
             gun, or gun accessory, as the case may be; or

        (b) for 6 months after that date and, if within that period the person applies
             for a licence under Part 4 to convey that gun, major part of a gun, or
             gun accessory, then for a further period ending on the happening of the
             earlier of the following:

                  (i) the date on which a Licensing Officer grants a licence to the
                      person to convey that gun, major part of a gun, or gun
                      accessory, as the case may be;

                 (ii) the date that the application is finally refused or is withdrawn.

 (2) Every person who, immediately before the date of commencement of
section 25, is carrying on a business involving the conveying of any explosive or
explosive precursor may continue to convey that explosive or explosive
precursor —

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
160  NO. 3 OF 2021

                           THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

        (a) for 6 months after that date or until an order under section 56 is earlier
             made applicable to the person for conveying that explosive or
             explosive precursor, as the case may be; or

        (b) for 6 months after that date and, if within that period the person applies
             for a licence under Part 4 to convey that explosive or explosive
             precursor, then for a further period ending on the happening of the
             earlier of the following:

                  (i) the date on which a Licensing Officer grants a licence to the
                      person to convey that explosive or explosive precursor, as the
                      case may be;

                 (ii) the date that the application is finally refused or is withdrawn.

 (3) Every person who, immediately before the date of commencement of
section 32, is carrying on a business involving the conveying of any weapon
(whether or not a bayonet, sword, dagger, spear or spearhead) may continue to
convey that weapon —

        (a) for 6 months after that date or until an order under section 56 is earlier
             made applicable to the person for conveying that weapon; or

        (b) for 6 months after that date and, if within that period the person applies
             for a licence under Part 4 to convey that weapon, then for a further
             period ending on the happening of the earlier of the following:

                  (i) the date on which a Licensing Officer grants a licence to the
                      person to convey that weapon;

                 (ii) the date that the application is finally refused or is withdrawn.

                                                                                    [S 355/2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 10.—(1) Every person who, immediately before the date of commencement of
section 30, is carrying on a business involving the manufacture or repair of any
non-arms weapon, may continue to manufacture or repair, or take part in the
manufacture or repair of, that weapon —

        (a) for 6 months after that date or until an order under section 56 is earlier
             made applicable to the person for manufacturing or repairing (as the
             case may be) that weapon; or

        (b) for 6 months after that date and, if within that period the person applies
             for a licence under Part 4 to manufacture or repair that weapon, then
             for a further period ending on the happening of the earlier of the
             following:

                  (i) the date on which a Licensing Officer grants a licence to the
                      person to manufacture or repair that weapon;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
           GUNS, EXPLOSIVES AND WEAPONS CONTROL 161

                           THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
                 (ii) the date that the application is finally refused or is withdrawn.
 (2) Every person who, immediately before the date of commencement of
section 32, is carrying on a business involving the supply of any non-arms
weapon, may continue to supply that weapon —
        (a) for 6 months after that date or until an order under section 56 is earlier
             made applicable to the person for supplying that weapon; or
        (b) for 6 months after that date and, if within that period the person applies
             for a licence under Part 4 to supply that weapon, then for a further
             period ending on the happening of the earlier of the following:
                  (i) the date on which a Licensing Officer grants a licence to the

                      person to supply that weapon;
                 (ii) the date that the application is finally refused or is withdrawn.
 (3) In this paragraph, “non-arms weapon” means any weapon that is not any of
the following:
        (a) a bayonet, sword or dagger;
        (b) a spear or spearhead;
        (c) an arrow with any of the following points:
                  (i) a broadhead tip;
                 (ii) a field arrow tip;
                (iii) a blunt arrow tip;
                (iv) a grabbing arrow tip;
                 (v) a fishing arrow tip;
        (d) an arbalest;
        (e) a device (commonly called a crossbow) consisting of a bow fitted
             transversely on a stock that has a groove or barrel, designed to direct an
             arrow or a bolt;
         (f) a bow with a draw weight of more than 27.215 kilograms.

                                                                                    [S 355/2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 11.—(1) Every person who, immediately before the date of commencement of
section 29, has in the person’s possession a weapon, may continue to have in the
person’s possession the weapon —

        (a) for 6 months after that date or until an order under section 56 is earlier
             made applicable to the person for possessing the weapon; or

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
162  NO. 3 OF 2021

                          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

       (b) for 6 months after that date and, if within that period the person applies
            for a licence under Part 4 to possess that weapon, then for a further
            period ending on the happening of the earlier of the following:

                (i) the date on which a Licensing Officer grants a licence to the
                     person to possess that weapon;

               (ii) the date that the application is finally refused or is withdrawn.

(2) In this paragraph, “weapon” means —

       (a) any bayonet, sword, dagger, spear or spearhead kept in a dwelling
            house as a curio or for ornamental purposes; or

       (b) any weapon that is not any of the following:

                (i) a bayonet, sword, dagger, spear or spearhead not kept in a
                     dwelling house as a curio or for ornamental purposes;

               (ii) an arrow with any of the following points:

                      (A) a broadhead tip;

                      (B) a field arrow tip;

                      (C) a blunt arrow tip;

                      (D) a grabbing arrow tip;

                      (E) a fishing arrow tip;

               (iii) an arbalest;

               (iv) a device (commonly called a crossbow) consisting of a bow
                     fitted transversely on a stock that has a groove or barrel,
                     designed to direct an arrow or a bolt;

                (v) a bow with a draw weight of more than 27.215 kilograms.

                                                                                  [S 355/2025 wef 01/07/2025]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
