THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
          MUTUAL BENEFIT ORGANISATIONS
                               ACT 1960

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
                                                                   2020 Ed.

         Mutual Benefit Organisations
                     Act 1960

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

     1.  Short title
     2.  Interpretation
     3.  Appointment of Registrar and Assistant Registrars
     4.  Conditions of registration
     5.  Registration and issue of certificate of registration
     6.  Refusal to register mutual benefit organisation
     7.  Appeal from refusal to register
     8.  Annual registers to be published
     9.  Registration of amendments of rules
   10.   Registered office
   11.   Appointment of trustees
   12.   Persons prohibited from acting as officers of organisation
   13.   Audit
   14.   Annual returns
   15.   Copy of last balance sheet
   16.   Priority on death, bankruptcy, etc., of officer
   17.   Membership of minors
   18.   Restriction on nominees
   19.   Right to supply of copies of rules
   20.   Right to supply of copies of annual return
   21.   Inspection of books by members
   22.   Subscriptions and benefits
   23.   Utilisation of reserve funds
   24.   Power to change name
   25.   Meaning of special resolution
   26.   Registration of special resolutions
   27.   Inspectors and special meetings
   28.   Cancellation and suspension of registration
   29.   Power to freeze bank accounts
   30.   Power to seize documents
   31.   Consequences upon cancellation of registration of organisation
   32.   Dissolution of registered organisations

                                                    1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
          Mutual Benefit Organisations

2020 Ed.  Act 1960                                                              2

Section   Instrument of dissolution
          Dissolution by Registrar
   33.    Notice of proceedings to set aside dissolution
   34.    Decision on disputes
   35.    Unlawful organisations
   36.    Penalties on office-bearer, etc., of unlawful organisation
   37.    Penalties on member of unlawful organisation
   38.    Persons allowing unlawful organisation on premises
   39.    Presumptions
   40.    Offences
   41.    Offences by organisation to be also offences by officers, etc.
   42.    Continuing offence
   43.    Punishment of fraud, false declaration and misappropriation
   44.    Falsification
   45.    Legal proceedings
   46.    Exemption
   47.    Rules
   48.    The Schedule — Matters for which provision must be made in
   49.
                                the rules of every mutual benefit organisation

An Act for the registration and control of mutual benefit
  organisations.
                                                               [1 August 1960]

Short title
 1. This Act is the Mutual Benefit Organisations Act 1960.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “benefit” means the payment made by a mutual benefit
         organisation for the relief or maintenance of the members
         or subscribers or on birth or death in accordance with the
         rules of the mutual benefit organisation;
      “mutual benefit organisation” or “organisation” means any
         organisation which by its objects and rules either as the
         principal object or as an ancillary object makes provision by

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
   Mutual Benefit Organisations

3  Act 1960                                                  2020 Ed.

   voluntary subscriptions of the members thereof or
   subscribers thereto with or without the aid of donations for —

   (a) the relief or maintenance of the members or
        subscribers, their husbands, wives, children,
        fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, nephews, nieces
        or wards, during sickness or other infirmity, whether
        bodily or mental, in old age or in widowhood or for
        the relief or maintenance of the orphan children of
        members or subscribers during minority;

   (b) the payment of money on the birth of a member’s or
        subscriber’s child or on the death of a member or
        subscriber or of the child, husband, wife, parent or
        grandparent of a member or subscriber or on the
        death of any other person or for the funeral expenses
        of the member or subscriber or of the child, husband
        or wife of a member or subscriber or of the widow of
        a deceased member or subscriber; or

   (c) the relief or maintenance of the members or
       subscribers when unemployed or when in
       distressed circumstances;

   “officer” means the president, the secretary and members of a
      committee of an organisation and includes persons holding
      positions analogous to those of president, secretary or
      member of a committee;

   “registered organisation” means any organisation for the time
      being registered under this Act;

   “Registrar” means the officer appointed as Registrar of Mutual
      Benefit Organisations and includes an Assistant Registrar of
      Mutual Benefit Organisations;

   “subscription” means a subscription paid by a member or
      subscriber to a mutual benefit organisation and, where a
      mutual benefit organisation carries on activities other than
      those of a mutual benefit organisation, means the
      subscription paid by the member or subscriber for the

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
          Mutual Benefit Organisations

2020 Ed.  Act 1960                                                  4

          purpose of obtaining the benefits provided by the rules of the
          organisation.

Appointment of Registrar and Assistant Registrars

 3. The Minister may appoint by name or office an officer to be the
Registrar of Mutual Benefit Organisations and officers to be Assistant
Registrars of Mutual Benefit Organisations.

Conditions of registration

 4.—(1) Every mutual benefit organisation shall apply for
registration under this Act.

 (2) The application for registration of the organisation shall be
signed by 7 members and the secretary and shall be sent together with
a copy of the rules and a list of the names of the secretary and of every
trustee or other officer intended to be authorised to sue and be sued on
behalf of the organisation to the Registrar.

 (3) The rules of the organisation shall contain provisions in respect
of the several matters mentioned in the Schedule.

 (4) The list referred to in subsection (2) shall be signed by the
secretary and every trustee and other officer named therein and shall
on the registration of the organisation be evidence that the persons so
named have been duly appointed.

Registration and issue of certificate of registration

 5.—(1) Subject to this Act, the Registrar shall, upon an application
being made therefor by a mutual benefit organisation and on payment
of the prescribed fee, register the organisation with or without
conditions.

 (2) Upon registering an organisation under subsection (1), the
Registrar shall issue to that organisation a certificate of registration.

 (3) The certificate of registration referred to in subsection (2) shall
be conclusive evidence that the organisation mentioned therein is
duly registered, unless it is proved that the registration of the
organisation has been suspended or cancelled.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
   Mutual Benefit Organisations

5  Act 1960                                                  2020 Ed.

 (4) Where the organisation is registered under subsection (1)
subject to conditions, the organisation shall comply with those
conditions.

 (5) The Registrar may at any time vary or revoke any of the
conditions imposed under subsection (1) or impose conditions or
additional conditions in respect of the registration of an organisation.

Refusal to register mutual benefit organisation

 6.—(1) The Registrar shall refuse to register a mutual benefit
organisation if he is satisfied that —

       (a) the rules of the organisation are insufficient to provide for
            its proper management and control;

       (b) the organisation is likely to be used for unlawful purposes
            or for purposes prejudicial to public peace, welfare or good
            order in Singapore;

       (c) any officer or person managing or assisting in the
            management of the organisation is not of good character;

       (d) the scheme for the relief or maintenance of the members
            thereof or subscribers thereto as provided for in the rules
            and objects of the organisation is undesirable and not in the
            interest of the members or subscribers;

       (e) the total number of members thereof or subscribers thereto
            is less than 50;

        (f) the application for registration does not comply with this
            Act or any rules made thereunder;

       (g) the rules and objects of the organisation are contrary to the
            provisions of this Act or any rules made thereunder; or

       (h) it would be contrary to the public interest for the
            organisation to be registered.

 (2) The Registrar may refuse to register a mutual benefit
organisation if —

       (a) it appears to him that the name under which the
            organisation is to be registered is —

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
          Mutual Benefit Organisations

2020 Ed.  Act 1960                                                  6

          (i) identical with or so nearly resembles that of any
              other existing organisation as is likely to deceive the
              members of the public as to its nature or identity; or

          (ii) likely to mislead members of the public as to the true
               character and purpose of the organisation; or

(b) no satisfactory evidence has been produced of the good
     character of the officers or persons managing or assisting
     in the management of the organisation.

Appeal from refusal to register

 7. Any person who is aggrieved by a decision of the Registrar under
section 5(1) or (5) or section 6 may, within one month of being
notified of the decision of the Registrar, appeal against his decision to
the Minister whose decision shall be final.

Annual registers to be published

 8. The Registrar shall cause to be published in the Gazette in July of
each year a list of all existing registered organisations.

Registration of amendments of rules

 9.—(1) An amendment of the rules of a registered organisation
shall not be valid until the amendment has been registered under this
Act, for which purpose copies of the amendment signed by
3 members and the secretary shall be sent to the Registrar.

 (2) The Registrar, on being satisfied that the amendment is not
contrary to the provisions of this Act, shall issue to the registered
organisation an acknowledgment of registration of the amendment
and that acknowledgment shall be conclusive evidence that the
amendment is duly registered.

 (3) Any person aggrieved by the refusal of the Registrar to register
an amendment may appeal to the Minister whose decision shall be
final.

Registered office

 10. Every registered organisation shall have a registered office to
which all communications and notices may be addressed, and shall

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
   Mutual Benefit Organisations

7  Act 1960                                                  2020 Ed.

send to the Registrar notice of the address of that office and of every
change therein.

Appointment of trustees

 11.—(1) Every registered organisation shall have one or more
trustees.

 (2) The trustees shall be appointed at a meeting of the registered
organisation and by a resolution of a majority of the members present
and entitled to vote.

 (3) The registered organisation shall send to the Registrar a copy of
every resolution appointing a trustee signed by the trustee so
appointed and by the secretary of the registered organisation.

 (4) The same person shall not be secretary or treasurer of a
registered organisation and a trustee of that registered organisation.

Persons prohibited from acting as officers of organisation

 12.—(1) No person shall act as an officer of a mutual benefit
organisation or manage or assist in the management of the
organisation if —

       (a) he has been convicted of any offence involving dishonesty
            or moral turpitude and has not received a free pardon; or

       (b) he has been convicted of any other offence and sentenced
            to a fine of not less than $2,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term of not less than one year and has not received a free
            pardon, unless the written permission of the Minister so to
            act is first obtained.

 (2) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any of the
provisions of subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $500 or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Audit

 13.—(1) Every registered organisation shall once at least in every
year submit its accounts for audit by an auditor approved generally or
for any particular audit by the Registrar.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
          Mutual Benefit Organisations

2020 Ed.  Act 1960                                                  8

 (2) The auditor shall have access to all the books and accounts of
the registered organisation and shall examine the annual return
mentioned in this Act and verify the annual return with the accounts
and vouchers relating thereto, and shall either sign the annual return
as found by him to be correct, duly vouched and in accordance with
law, or specially report to the registered organisation in what respects
he finds it incorrect, unvouched or not in accordance with law.

Annual returns

 14.—(1) Every registered organisation shall once in every year, not
later than 31 May, send to the Registrar a return (referred to in this Act
as the annual return) of the receipts and expenditure, funds and effects
of the registered organisation as audited.

 (2) The annual return shall —

       (a) show separately the expenditure in respect of the several
            objects of the registered organisation;

       (b) be made out to 31 December then last inclusively; and

       (c) state the name, address and calling or profession of the
            auditor and the manner in which and the authority under
            which he is appointed.

 (3) The registered organisation shall send to the Registrar, together
with the annual return, a copy of any special report of the auditor.

Copy of last balance sheet

 15. Every registered organisation shall keep a copy of the last
annual balance sheet together with any special report of the auditors
always displayed in a conspicuous place at the registered office of the
organisation.

Priority on death, bankruptcy, etc., of officer

 16. In the following cases:

       (a) upon the death or bankruptcy of any officer of a registered
            organisation having in his possession by virtue of his office
            any money or property belonging to the organisation; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
   Mutual Benefit Organisations

9  Act 1960                                                  2020 Ed.

   (b) if any enforcement, attachment or other process is issued or
        action taken against any such officer or against his
        property,

his heirs, executors or administrators or the Official Assignee or the
Sheriff of the Supreme Court or other person executing the process or
the party taking the action, shall upon demand in writing of the
trustees of the registered organisation or of any 2 of them or of any
person authorised by the registered organisation to make the demand,
pay the money and deliver over the property to the trustees of the
registered organisation in preference to any other debt or claim
against the estate of the officer.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Membership of minors

 17.—(1) The rules of a registered organisation may provide for the
admission of a person under 21 years of age as a member or
subscriber.

 (2) Any such member or subscriber may, if he is over 16 years of
age, by himself and if he is under that age by his parent or guardian,
execute all instruments and give all acquittances necessary to be
executed or given under the rules, but shall not be a member of the
committee, or a trustee, secretary, manager or treasurer of the
registered organisation.

Restriction on nominees

 18. No member or subscriber of a registered organisation may
nominate as the person to receive the benefits provided under the
rules of the organisation a person other than the wife, children
(including adopted children), grandchildren, mother, father,
sons‑in‑law, daughters‑in‑law, brothers or sisters of the whole
blood, brothers or sisters of the half‑blood, children of such
brothers and sisters of the whole or half‑blood, uncles or aunts of
the whole blood, uncles or aunts of the half‑blood or children of those
uncles or aunts of the whole or half‑blood of that member or
subscriber:

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
          Mutual Benefit Organisations

2020 Ed.  Act 1960                                                  10

      Provided that a member or subscriber may nominate any other
person in writing signed by himself in the presence of and attested by
a Justice of the Peace or a Magistrate or the Registrar.

Right to supply of copies of rules

 19. Every registered organisation shall deliver to any person on
demand and on payment of a sum not exceeding one dollar, a copy of
the rules of the organisation.

Right to supply of copies of annual return

 20. Every registered organisation shall supply free of charge to
every member or subscriber or person having an interest in its funds
on his application either —

       (a) a copy of the last annual return of the organisation; or

       (b) a balance sheet or other document duly audited containing
            the same particulars as to the receipt and expenditure,
            funds and effects of the organisation as are contained in the
            annual return.

Inspection of books by members

 21. A member or subscriber or person having an interest in the
funds of a registered organisation may inspect the books of the
organisation at all reasonable hours at the registered office of the
organisation or at any place where the books are kept.

Subscriptions and benefits

 22.—(1) The amount deducted by a registered organisation for
administration or any other expense shall not exceed such percentage
of the total receipts from subscriptions as may be prescribed by the
Minister by rules made under this Act.

 (2) All subscriptions paid by members or subscribers during the
period in which, under the rules of any registered organisation, the
members or subscribers are qualifying for the benefits provided by
the rules of the organisation less a sum not exceeding the prescribed
percentage allowed for administration and any other expense shall be
placed on deposit with a bank which is a member of the Association

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
    Mutual Benefit Organisations

11  Act 1960                                                  2020 Ed.

of Banks in Singapore in the name of the organisation or be invested
in trustee securities and those funds shall constitute the reserve funds
of the organisation.

                                                                                                              [37/98]

 (3) Subscriptions received from members of or subscribers to a
registered organisation who have qualified for benefits under the
rules of the organisation less a sum not exceeding the prescribed
percentage allowed for administration and any other expense shall be
paid into a separate account in the name of the organisation with a
bank which is a member of the Association of Banks in Singapore and
the organisation may draw upon these funds for the purpose of paying
the benefits provided in the rules of the organisation.

                                                                                                              [37/98]

 (4) No payment of any sum payable as a result of the death of a
person shall be made by the organisation except upon the production
of the original death certificate or a certified copy thereof issued by a
registrar of deaths or, in the case of a person dying outside Singapore,
a death certificate issued by the appropriate authority in the place
where the person died:

      Provided that payment may be made to the personal
representative of a deceased member or subscriber where no
nomination has been made upon the production of letters of
administration or probate of the will of the deceased member or
subscriber.

Utilisation of reserve funds

 23. The reserve funds of a mutual benefit organisation referred to in
section 22(2), or any part thereof, may be utilised for any purpose
approved by the Minister.

Power to change name

 24.—(1) A registered organisation may, by special resolution, with
the approval in writing of the Registrar, change its name and shall not
change its name in any other manner.

 (2) No change of name shall affect any right or obligation of the
registered organisation or of any member thereof, and any legal
proceeding may be continued by or against the trustees of the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
          Mutual Benefit Organisations

2020 Ed.  Act 1960                                                  12

organisation or any officer who may sue or be sued on behalf of the
organisation, notwithstanding such change of name.

Meaning of special resolution

 25.—(1) For the purpose of this Act, “a special resolution” means a
resolution that is —

       (a) passed by a majority of not less than three-fourths of such
            members of a registered organisation entitled under the
            rules to vote as may be present at any general meeting of
            which notice specifying the intention to propose the
            resolution has been duly given according to the rules; and

       (b) confirmed by a majority of such members entitled under
            the rules to vote as may be present at a subsequent general
            meeting of which notice has been duly given, held not less
            than 14 days nor more than one month from the day of the
            meeting at which the resolution was first passed.

 (2) At any meeting mentioned in this section, a declaration by the
chairman that the resolution has been carried shall be conclusive
evidence of the fact.

Registration of special resolutions

 26. A copy of every special resolution signed by the chairman of the
meeting and countersigned by the secretary shall be sent to the
Registrar and registered and until that copy is registered the special
resolution shall not take effect.

Inspectors and special meetings

 27.—(1) Upon the application of one-fifth of the total number of
members of a registered organisation, the Registrar may —

       (a) appoint an inspector or inspectors to examine into and
            report on the affairs of the organisation; or

       (b) call a special meeting of the organisation.

 (2) An application under this section shall be supported by such
evidence for the purpose of showing that the applicants have good
reason for requiring an inspection to be made or meeting to be called,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
    Mutual Benefit Organisations

13  Act 1960                                                  2020 Ed.

and that they are not actuated by malicious motives in their
application and such notice thereof shall be given to the registered
organisation as the Registrar may direct.

 (3) The Registrar may, if he thinks fit, require the applicants to give
security for the costs of the proposed inspection or meeting before
appointing any inspector or calling a meeting.

 (4) All expenses of and incidental or preliminary to any such
inspection or meeting shall be defrayed by the members applying
therefor or out of the funds of the organisation or by the members or
officers or former members or officers of the organisation in such
proportions as the Registrar may direct.

 (5) An inspector appointed under this section may require the
production of all or any of the books and documents of the
organisation and may examine on oath its officers, members,
agents and employees in relation to its business and may
administer such oath accordingly.

 (6) The Registrar may direct at what time and place a special
meeting under this section is to be held and what matters are to be
discussed and determined at the meeting, and the meeting shall be
deemed to be a meeting called according to the rules of the
organisation and those present and entitled to vote shall in all cases
have power to appoint the chairman, notwithstanding any rule of the
organisation to the contrary.

Cancellation and suspension of registration

 28.—(1) The Registrar may cancel the registration of a mutual
benefit organisation —

       (a) if he is satisfied that —

               (i) any misrepresentation, whether innocent or
                   otherwise, has been made or there has been a
                   failure to disclose any fact, at the time of the
                   application for registration of the organisation, and
                   such misrepresentation or non‑disclosure would
                   have influenced the decision of the Registrar to
                   register or refuse to register the organisation;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
          Mutual Benefit Organisations

2020 Ed.  Act 1960                                                  14

          (ii) the organisation is being used for unlawful purposes
               or for purposes prejudicial to public peace, welfare
               or good order in Singapore;

          (iii) the organisation is being used for purposes
                incompatible with its objects or rules;

          (iv) the rules of the organisation are or have been
               inadequate for its proper management and control
               and the registered organisation has failed without
               reasonable excuse to amend its rules within 3 months
               of, and in accordance with, a direction from the
               Registrar to amend its rules for those purposes;

          (v) any officer or person managing or assisting in the
               management of the organisation is not of good
               character and the organisation has failed without
               reasonable excuse to remove the officer or person
               within 3 months of, and in accordance with, a
               direction from the Registrar to remove the officer or
               person from the organisation;

          (vi) the number of members of the organisation is less
               than 50; or

          (vii) the organisation is contravening or has contravened
                any of the provisions of this Act or any rules made
                thereunder;

(b) at the request of the organisation; or

          (c) if he considers it in the public interest to do so.

 (2) The Registrar, in any case in which he might cancel the
registration of a registered organisation, may by writing under his
hand suspend the registration for any term not exceeding 3 months,
and may renew the suspension for the like period.

 (3) Unless the Registrar has given to a registered organisation not
less than 2 months previous notice in writing specifying briefly the
ground of any proposed cancellation or suspension, the registration of
the organisation shall not be cancelled (except at its request) or
suspended.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
    Mutual Benefit Organisations

15  Act 1960                                                  2020 Ed.

 (4) Where the registration of a registered organisation has been
cancelled or suspended, a notification thereof shall be published in
the Gazette.

 (5) Where the registration of an organisation has been suspended or
cancelled, the organisation shall from the time of the suspension or
cancellation (but if suspended only while the suspension lasts, and
subject also to the right of appeal given by this section) cease to be a
registered organisation but without prejudice to any liability actually
incurred by the organisation and any such liability may be enforced
against the organisation as if the suspension or cancellation had not
taken place.

 (6) A registered organisation may appeal from the cancellation of
its registration or from any suspension thereof to the Minister whose
decision shall be final.

Power to freeze bank accounts

 29.—(1) Where a notice has been given by the Registrar to a mutual
benefit organisation under section 28(3), the Minister may, where he
is satisfied that it is likely that the funds of the mutual benefit
organisation may be misused, by order, direct any bank in Singapore
not to pay any money out and not to pay cheques drawn on the
account of that organisation for a specified period not exceeding
3 months.

 (2) A bank and any officer thereof which complies with an order of
the Minister under subsection (1) shall be relieved of any liability to
any other person in respect of the payment prohibited by the order.

 (3) The manager of any bank which fails to comply with an order of
the Minister under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $3,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

Power to seize documents

 30.—(1) Where a notice has been given by the Registrar to a mutual
benefit organisation under section 28(3), the Registrar or a police
officer authorised in writing by the Registrar may at any time enter
any place which the Registrar has reason to believe is kept or used by

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
          Mutual Benefit Organisations

2020 Ed.  Act 1960                                                  16

any mutual benefit organisation or any of its members as a place of
meeting or business and seize any account book, document or record
of the mutual benefit organisation.

 (2) Any person who obstructs or prevents the Registrar or a police
officer authorised in writing in that behalf by the Registrar from
seizing the account books, documents or records of a mutual benefit
organisation shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

Consequences upon cancellation of registration of organisation

 31.—(1) Upon the cancellation of the registration of any
organisation —

       (a) the property of the organisation within Singapore shall
            forthwith vest either in the Official Receiver or in such
            other officer as may be appointed for the purpose of
            winding up by the Minister;

       (b) the Official Receiver or that other officer shall proceed to
            wind up the affairs of the organisation and after satisfying
            and providing for all debts and liabilities of the
            organisation and the costs of winding up, shall divide the
            surplus assets, if any, of the organisation amongst the
            members of the organisation according to the rules of the
            organisation, if any, or if there are no such rules applicable
            to such a case, then equally, but if by reason of the great
            number of members, or the difficulty of ascertaining the
            persons entitled to the assets or if from any other cause
            such a division is, in the opinion of the Official Receiver or
            that other officer, impracticable, he shall prepare and
            submit to a Judge sitting in the General Division of the
            High Court for his approval a scheme for the application of
            the surplus assets to purposes for the benefit of that portion
            of the public to which the members of the organisation
            more particularly belonged or of the public generally;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
    Mutual Benefit Organisations

17  Act 1960                                                  2020 Ed.

    (c) such a scheme, when submitted for approval, may be
        amended by the Judge in such a way as he thinks proper
        under the circumstances of the case;

    (d) the approval of the Judge of such a scheme or amended
         scheme shall be denoted by the endorsement thereon of a
         memorandum of the approval signed by the Registrar of
         the Supreme Court and by the memorandum being sealed
         with the seal of the Court and upon this being done, the
         surplus assets, the subject of the scheme, shall be held and
         applied by the Official Receiver or that other officer upon
         the terms and to the purposes thereby prescribed; and

       (e) for the purpose of winding up the affairs of an organisation
            the Official Receiver or such other officer shall have all the
            powers vested in the Official Receiver under the
            Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 for
            the purpose of discovery of the property of a debtor, the
            realisation thereof and the winding up of a company, and
            the provisions of those Acts shall apply mutatis mutandis
            to the winding up of the affairs of a mutual benefit
            organisation under this Act.

                                                                       [16/93; 9/2003; 40/2018; S 1018/2020]

 (2) For the purpose of enabling an organisation to wind up its own
affairs, the Minister may by notification in the Gazette suspend the
operation of subsection (1) for such period as to him seems expedient.

Dissolution of registered organisations

 32. A registered organisation may terminate or be dissolved in any
of the following ways:

       (a) upon the happening of any event declared by the rules to
            amount to termination of the organisation;

       (b) by the consent of three-fourths of the members of the
            organisation testified by their signatures to an instrument
            of dissolution;

       (c) by the Registrar in the cases specified in this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
          Mutual Benefit Organisations

2020 Ed.                   Act 1960                                 18

Instrument of dissolution

 33. Where a registered organisation is terminated by an instrument
of dissolution —

(a) the instrument shall set forth —

          (i) the liabilities and assets of the registered
              organisation in detail;

          (ii) the number of members and subscribers and the
               nature of their interests in the organisation;

          (iii) the intended appropriation or division of the funds
                and property of the organisation, unless the
                appropriation or division is stated in the instrument
                of dissolution to be left to the award of the Registrar;

(b) a statutory declaration made by one of the trustees or by
     3 members and the secretary of the organisation that the
     provisions of this Act have been complied with shall be
     sent to the Registrar with the instrument of dissolution;

          (c) the instrument shall not direct or contain any provision for
              a division or appropriation of the funds of the organisation
              or any part thereof, otherwise than for the purpose of
              carrying into effect the objects of the organisation as
              declared in the rules thereof, unless the claim of every
              member or person claiming any relief, annuity or other
              benefit from the funds thereof is first duly satisfied or
              adequate provision is made for satisfying those claims;

(d) the instrument of dissolution shall be registered in the
     manner provided in this Act for the registration of
     amendments of rules, and shall be binding upon all
     members of the organisation; and

          (e) the Registrar shall cause a notification of the dissolution to
              be published in the Gazette and unless within 3 months
              from the date of the publication of the notification, a
              member or subscriber or other person interested in or
              having any claim on the funds of the organisation
              commences proceedings to set aside the dissolution of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
    Mutual Benefit Organisations

19  Act 1960                                                  2020 Ed.

    the organisation, and the dissolution is set aside
    accordingly, the organisation shall be dissolved from the
    date of the publication of the notification in the Gazette and
    the requisite consents in the instrument of dissolution shall
    be considered to have been duly obtained without proof of
    the signatures thereto.

Dissolution by Registrar

 34.—(1) Upon the application made in writing under their hands of
one-fifth of the total number of members of a registered organisation,
the Registrar may, by himself or by any Assistant Registrar or by any
auditor whom the Registrar appoints in writing, investigate the affairs
of the organisation, but the Registrar shall give not less than one
month’s previous notice in writing to the organisation whose affairs
are to be investigated.

 (2) The application shall —

       (a) state that the funds of the organisation are insufficient to
            meet the existing claims thereon or that the rates of
            contribution fixed in the rules of the organisation are
            insufficient to cover the benefits assured;

       (b) set forth the grounds on which the insufficiency is alleged;
            and

       (c) request an investigation into the affairs of the organisation
            with a view to its dissolution.

 (3) If upon investigation it appears that the funds of the organisation
are insufficient to meet the existing claims thereon or that the rates of
contribution fixed in the rules of the organisation are insufficient to
cover the benefits assured to be given by the organisation, the
Registrar may, if he considers it expedient to do so, order that the
organisation shall be dissolved and its affairs wound up and shall
direct in what manner the assets of the organisation shall be divided
or appropriated:

      Provided that the Registrar may suspend his order for such
period as he may consider necessary to enable the organisation to
make such alteration and adjustment of contributions and benefits as

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
          Mutual Benefit Organisations

2020 Ed.  Act 1960                                                  20

will in his judgment remove the necessity for the making of the order
of dissolution.

 (4) The Registrar proceeding under this section shall have all the
powers and authorities enforceable by the same penalties as in the
case of a dispute referred to him under this Act.

 (5) Every order under this section, whether for dissolution or
distribution of funds, shall be final and conclusive on the organisation
in respect of which the order is made and on all members and
subscribers of the organisation and on all persons having any claim on
the funds of the organisation without appeal and shall be enforced in
the same manner as a decision in a dispute under this Act.

 (6) The expenses of every investigation and of publishing every
notification of dissolution shall be paid out of the funds of the
organisation before any other appropriation thereof is made.

 (7) A notification of every order for dissolution shall, within
21 days after the order has been made, be published in the Gazette and
unless, within 3 months from the date of the publication of the
notification, a member or subscriber or person interested in or having
any claim on the funds of the organisation commences proceedings to
set aside the dissolution of the organisation consequent upon the
order, and the dissolution is set aside accordingly, the organisation
shall be dissolved from the date of the publication of the notification
and the requisite signatures to the application to the Registrar shall be
considered to have been duly obtained without proof of the signatures
thereto.

Notice of proceedings to set aside dissolution

 35.—(1) Where a person takes any proceedings to set aside the
dissolution of an organisation, he shall give notice of the proceeding
to the Registrar not less than 7 days before the proceeding is
commenced.

 (2) Where an order is made setting aside the dissolution of an
organisation, the organisation shall give notice of the order to the
Registrar within 7 days after the order has been made.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
    Mutual Benefit Organisations

21                    Act 1960                                2020 Ed.

Decision on disputes

36.—(1) Every dispute between —

    (a) a member or subscriber or person claiming through a
         member or a subscriber or under the rules of a registered
         organisation and the organisation or an officer thereof; and

    (b) any person aggrieved who has ceased to be a member of a
         registered organisation or any person claiming through
         such an aggrieved person, and the organisation or an
         officer thereof,

shall be decided in the manner directed by the rules of the registered
organisation and the decision so given shall be binding and
conclusive on all parties without appeal, and shall not be
removable to any court or restrainable by injunction; and
application for the enforcement thereof may be made to a District
Court.

 (2) The parties to a dispute involving a registered organisation may
by consent (unless the rules of the organisation expressly forbid it)
refer the dispute to the Registrar.

 (3) The Registrar to whom a dispute is referred shall, either by
himself or by any Assistant Registrar, hear and determine the dispute
and shall have power to order the expenses of determining the dispute
to be paid either out of funds of the organisation or by such parties to
the dispute as he may think fit, and his determination or order shall
have the same effect and be enforceable in like manner as a decision
made in the manner directed by the rules of the organisation.

 (4) The Registrar or Assistant Registrar to whom a dispute is
referred may administer oaths and may require the attendance of all
parties concerned and of witnesses, and the production of all books
and documents relating to the matter in question.

Unlawful organisations

 37. Every mutual benefit organisation, not being a registered
organisation, shall be deemed to be an unlawful organisation.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
          Mutual Benefit Organisations

2020 Ed.  Act 1960                                                  22

Penalties on office-bearer, etc., of unlawful organisation

 38. Any office-bearer and any person managing or assisting in the
management of any unlawful organisation shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$3,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

Penalties on member of unlawful organisation

 39. Any person who is or acts as a member of an unlawful
organisation or attends a meeting of an unlawful organisation shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one
year or to both.

Persons allowing unlawful organisation on premises

 40. Any person who knowingly allows a meeting of an unlawful
organisation or of members of an unlawful organisation to be held in
any house, building or place belonging to or occupied by him or over
which he has control, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding one year or to both.

Presumptions

 41. In any proceedings under this Act —

       (a) it shall not be necessary for the prosecution to prove that a
            mutual benefit organisation possesses a name or that it has
            been constituted or is usually known under a particular
            name; and

       (b) where it is alleged that an organisation is an unlawful
            organisation, the burden of proving that it is a registered
            organisation shall lie on the person charged.

Offences

 42.—(1) It shall be an offence if —

       (a) a registered organisation or an officer or member thereof or
            subscriber thereto fails to give any notice, send any return
            or document, do or allow to be done anything which the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
    Mutual Benefit Organisations

23  Act 1960                                                  2020 Ed.

    organisation, officer or person is by this Act required to
    give, send, do or allow to be done;

    (b) a registered organisation or an officer or member thereof or
         subscriber thereto wilfully neglects or refuses to do any act
         or to furnish any information required for the purposes of
         this Act by the Registrar or by any person authorised under
         this Act, or does anything forbidden by this Act;

    (c) a registered organisation or an officer or member thereof or
        subscriber thereto makes a return or wilfully furnishes
        information which is in any respect false or insufficient; or

    (d) where a dispute is referred under this Act to the Registrar, a
         person refuses to attend or to produce any document or to
         give evidence before the Registrar or Assistant Registrar.

 (2) A registered organisation and an officer or member of or
subscriber to a registered organisation or other person guilty of an
offence under this section shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $200.

Offences by organisation to be also offences by officers, etc.

 43. Where a registered organisation is guilty of an offence, every
officer of the organisation bound by the rules thereof to fulfil any duty
whereof the offence is a breach, or if there is no such officer then
every member of the committee, unless that member is proved to
have been ignorant of or to have attempted to prevent the commission
of the offence, shall be liable to the same penalty as if he had
committed the offence.

Continuing offence

 44. Every default under this Act constituting an offence, if
continued, shall constitute a new offence in every week during
which the default continues.

Punishment of fraud, false declaration and misappropriation

 45.—(1) Any person who with intent to mislead or defraud gives to
any person a copy of any rules, laws, regulations or other documents,
other than the rules of a registered organisation, on the pretence that

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
          Mutual Benefit Organisations

2020 Ed.  Act 1960                                                  24

they are the existing rules of that organisation or that there are no
other rules of the organisation or gives to any person a copy of any
rules on the pretence that those rules are the rules of a registered
organisation when the organisation is not registered, shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$500 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

 (2) Any person who obtains possession by false representation of
any property of a registered organisation or withholds or misapplies
any such property in his possession or wilfully applies any part
thereof to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the rules
of the organisation and authorised by this Act, shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $500
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both and
to be ordered to deliver up all such property or to repay all sums of
money applied improperly.

Falsification

 46. Any person who wilfully makes, orders or allows to be made
any entry, erasure in or omission from a balance sheet of a registered
organisation or a return or document required to be sent, produced or
delivered for the purposes of this Act, with intent to falsify it or to
evade the provisions of this Act, shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $500 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Legal proceedings

 47.—(1) Every registered organisation may sue and be sued in the
name in which it is registered under this Act.

 (2) An originating claim or other legal process may be served on a
registered organisation by serving it on an officer of the organisation
or by leaving it at, or sending it by registered post to, the registered
address of the organisation.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (3) The judgment in any suit against a registered organisation shall
not be enforced against the person or property of any officer or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
    Mutual Benefit Organisations

25  Act 1960                                                  2020 Ed.

member of the organisation but only against the property of the
organisation.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Exemption

 48.—(1) Nothing in this Act shall apply to any person, body or
organisation to which the Insurance Act 1966 applies or which is
registered under the Co‑operative Societies Act 1979, the Trade
Unions Act 1940 or the Platform Workers Act 2024.

                                                                                [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

 (2) The Minister may exempt any organisation, person or class of
persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act.

Rules

 49.—(1) The Minister may make rules for any of the following
purposes:

       (a) prescribing the manner of registration of mutual benefit
            organisations under this Act;

       (b) regulating or restricting changes of the name or objects of
            registered organisations;

       (c) regulating or restricting changes of the place of business or
            place of meetings of registered organisations;

       (d) prescribing the forms which may be used for carrying out
            the provisions of this Act;

       (e) prescribing the information to be furnished to the
            Registrar;

        (f) prescribing the fees which may be levied under this Act;

       (g) prescribing the percentage of the total receipts from
            subscriptions that may be deducted by a registered
            organisation for administration and other expenses;

       (h) generally for carrying into effect the provisions of this Act
            in relation to any matters, whether similar or not to those in
            this subsection mentioned, as to which he may consider it
            expedient to make rules.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
          Mutual Benefit Organisations

2020 Ed.  Act 1960                                                  26

 (2) The Minister in making a rule under this section may direct that
a person guilty of a contravention of any rule shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $500
and where the contravention is a continuing one to a fine not
exceeding $50 for every day after the first day during which the
contravention continues.

 (3) All rules made under this section shall be published in the
Gazette and shall be presented to Parliament as soon as possible after
publication and if a resolution is passed pursuant to a motion notice
whereof has been given for a sitting day not later than the first
available sitting day of Parliament next after the expiry of 3 months
from the date when the rules are so presented annulling the rules or
any part thereof as from a specified date, the rules or such part
thereof, as the case may be, shall thereupon become void as from that
date but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done
thereunder or to the making of new rules.

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                         Section 4(3)

MATTERS FOR WHICH PROVISION MUST BE MADE IN THE RULES OF
                  EVERY MUTUAL BENEFIT ORGANISATION

 1. The name of the organisation and the place of office of the organisation.

 2. All the objects of the organisation and the conditions under which any
member or subscriber may become entitled to any benefit.

 3. The manner of making, altering, amending and rescinding the rules:

 Provided that no alteration may take place which would reduce benefits provided
by the rules without the approval of three‑fourths of the total of the members or
subscribers obtained by means of a ballot vote.

 4. The election and removal of office bearers, including the secretary, treasurer,
trustees and other officers of the organisation.

 5. The supplying of a copy of the rules of the organisation to every member or
subscriber.

 6. The custody and investment of the funds of the organisation and the
designation of the officers responsible therefor and the annual or periodical audit
of the organisation’s accounts.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
    Mutual Benefit Organisations

27  Act 1960                                                  2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

 7. Inspection of the books and register of names of members of or subscribers to
the organisation by any person having an interest in the funds of the organisation.

 8. The keeping of a register with particulars of the age, name and address of any
member or subscriber and the nominee (if any) of the member or subscriber to the
organisation.

 9. The minimum number for a quorum for general meetings and committee
meetings, such minimum number to be not less than 3 times the total number of
the members of the committee in the case of general meetings and not less than
one‑half of the total number of the members of the committee in the case of
committee meetings.

10. The manner of deciding a dispute between —

    (a) a member or subscriber or person claiming through a member or a
         subscriber or under the rules of a registered organisation and the
         organisation or an officer thereof; and

    (b) any person aggrieved who has ceased to be a member of a registered
         organisation or any person claiming through such aggrieved person
         and the organisation or an officer thereof.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
                    LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

           MUTUAL BENEFIT ORGANISATIONS
                              ACT 1960

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Ordinance 42 of 1960 — Mutual Benefit Organisations Ordinance, 1960

Bill                     : 66/1960

First Reading            : 12 February 1960

Second Reading           : 2 March 1960

Select Committee Report  : Sessional Paper No. L.A. 15 of 1960

Notice of Amendments     : 16 May 1960

Third Reading            : 16 May 1960

Commencement             : 1 August 1960

2. L.N. 470/1964 (G.N. Sp. No. S 14/1965) — Modification of Laws
                                                           (Insurance) (Extension)
                                                           Order, 1964

Commencement             : 1 January 1965

3. Act 58 of 1970 — Mutual Benefit Organisations (Amendment) Act, 1970

Bill                     : 47/1970

First Reading            : 4 November 1970

Second and Third Readings : 30 December 1970

Commencement             : 1 February 1971

4. 1970 Revised Edition — Mutual Benefit Organisations Act (Chapter 254)

Operation                : 31 July 1971

5. Act 8 of 1974 — Mutual Benefit Organisations (Amendment) Act, 1974

Bill                     : 2/1974

First Reading            : 4 March 1974

Second and Third Readings : 27 March 1974

Commencement             : 1 July 1974

6. 1985 Revised Edition — Mutual Benefit Organisations Act (Chapter 191)

Operation                : 30 March 1987

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
                      ii

7. Act 16 of 1993 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 1993
   (Amendments made by section 29(5) read with item (12) of the Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill                  : 12/1993

First Reading         : 26 February 1993

Second Reading        : 12 April 1993

Notice of Amendments  : 12 April 1993

Third Reading         : 12 April 1993

Commencement          : 1 July 1993 (section 29(5) read with
                            item (12) of the Schedule)

8. Act 37 of 1998 — Post Office Savings Bank of Singapore (Transfer of
                           Undertakings and Dissolution) Act 1998

   (Amendments made by section 19 read with item (8) of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill                  : 34/1998

First Reading         : 31 July 1998

Second Reading        : 12 October 1998

Notice of Amendments  : 12 October 1998

Third Reading         : 12 October 1998

Commencement          : 16 November 1998 (section 19 read
                            with item (8) of the Schedule)

9. Act 9 of 2003 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2003
   (Amendments made by section 10 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 7/2003

First Reading         : 20 March 2003

Second and Third Readings : 24 April 2003

Commencement          : 16 May 2003 (section 10)

10. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 496 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2018

First Reading         : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement          : 30 July 2020 (section 496)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
               iii

11. G.N. No. S 1018/2020 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act
                                    2019 (Consequential Amendments to Other
                                    Acts) Order 2020

Commencement   : 2 January 2021

12. 2020 Revised Edition — Mutual Benefit Organisations
                                     Act 1960

Operation      : 31 December 2021

13. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 168 of the above Act)

Bill           : 18/2021

First Reading  : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement   : 1 April 2022

14. Act 30 of 2024 — Platform Workers Act 2024

Bill           : 26/2024

First Reading  : 6 August 2024

Second and Third Readings : 10 September 2024

Commencement   : 1 November 2024

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
.                                 iv
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
         COMPARATIVE TABLE

MUTUAL BENEFIT ORGANISATIONS
                   ACT 1960

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    1985 Ed.
25—(1) and (2)             25

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
