THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
               MERCHANT SHIPPING (CIVIL

         LIABILITY AND COMPENSATION FOR
          BUNKER OIL POLLUTION) ACT 2008

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                                                         2020 Ed.

   Merchant Shipping (Civil
Liability and Compensation for
Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                        PART 2

           CIVIL LIABILITY FOR BUNKER OIL POLLUTION

                               Division 1 — Liability

 3. Liability for bunker oil pollution
 4. Exceptions from liability under section 3
 5. Restriction of liability for bunker oil pollution
 6. Limitation of liability under section 3
 7. Limitation actions
 8. Restriction on enforcement of claims after establishment of

         limitation fund
 9. Concurrent liabilities of owners and others
10. Establishment of limitation fund outside Singapore
11. Extinguishment of claims

                       Division 2 — Compulsory Insurance

12. Compulsory insurance against liability for bunker oil pollution
13. Issue of certificates
14. Rights of third parties against insurers

                           Division 3 — Supplementary

15. Jurisdiction of Singapore courts and registration of foreign
         judgments

                        1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Merchant Shipping (Civil

          Liability and Compensation for

2020 Ed.  Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008                             2

Section   Restriction on enforcement of judgments given by court in
   16.    country not party to Bunker Convention
          Government ship
   17.    Saving for recourse actions
   18.    Power to detain ship
   19.    Power of arrest
   20.    Sale of ship
   21.

                                        PART 3

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

22. Director may authorise person to exercise powers and duties
23. Power to board and search ship
24. Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
25. Protection from personal liability
26. Jurisdiction of court
27. Composition of offences
28. All moneys recovered to be paid to Authority
29. Regulations

An Act to give effect to the International Convention on Civil
  Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage 2001 and to make
  provisions generally for matters connected therewith.

                                                         [21 November 2008]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Merchant Shipping (Civil Liability and
Compensation for Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                Merchant Shipping (Civil

                Liability and Compensation for

3               Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008              2020 Ed.

Interpretation

   2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

       “Authority” means the Maritime and Port Authority of
           Singapore established under the Maritime and Port
           Authority of Singapore Act 1996;

   “Bunker Convention” means the International Convention on
      Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage 2001;

   “Bunker Convention country” means a country in respect of
      which the Bunker Convention is in force;

   “Bunker Convention State” means a State which is a party to the
      Bunker Convention;

   “bunker oil” means any hydrocarbon mineral oil, including
      lubricating oil, used or intended to be used for the operation
      or propulsion of a ship, and any residues of such oil;

   “Court” means the General Division of the High Court;

   “damage” includes loss;

   “Director” means the Director of Marine appointed under
      section 4 of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 and includes
      the Deputy Director of Marine appointed under that section;

   “gross tonnage”, in relation to a ship, means its gross tonnage
      calculated in accordance with the regulations in Annex 1 of
      the International Convention on Tonnage Measurement of
      Ships, 1969;

   “master” includes every person, except a pilot, having command
      or charge of a ship;

   “offshore facility” has the meaning given by the Bunker
      Convention;

   “owner”, in relation to a ship, means the owner, and includes the
      registered owner, bareboat charterer, manager and operator of
      the ship;

   “port” has the meaning given by the Maritime and Port
      Authority of Singapore Act 1996;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Merchant Shipping (Civil

          Liability and Compensation for

2020 Ed.  Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008                           4

“registered owner”, in relation to a ship, means the person
   registered as the owner of the ship, or, in the absence of
   registration, the person owning the ship, except that, in
   relation to a ship owned by a State which is operated by a
   person registered in that State as the ship’s operator, it means
   the person registered as its operator;

“ship” means any sea-going vessel and seaborne craft of any
   type;

“Singapore ship” has the meaning given by the Merchant
   Shipping Act 1995.

                                                                   [40/2019]

(2) For the purposes of this Act —

(a) references to the territory of Singapore include the
     territorial sea and exclusive economic zone of Singapore
     and references to the territory of any other country include
     the territorial sea and exclusive economic zone of that
     country;

(b) references to the exclusive economic zone of a country are
     references to the exclusive economic zone of that country
     established in accordance with international law or, if such
     a zone has not been established, such area adjacent to the
     territorial sea of that country and extending not more than
     200 nautical miles from the baselines from which the
     breadth of that sea is measured;

          (c) references to a discharge or an escape of bunker oil from a
              ship are references to such a discharge or an escape
              wherever it may occur of bunker oil on board or originating
              from that ship;

(d) where more than one discharge or escape results from the
     same occurrence or from a series of occurrences having the
     same origin, they are treated as one; but any measures
     taken after the first of them are deemed to have been taken
     after the discharge or escape; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
   Merchant Shipping (Civil

   Liability and Compensation for

5  Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008                           2020 Ed.

   (e) where a relevant threat of contamination mentioned in
       section 3(2) results from a series of occurrences having the
       same origin, they are treated as a single occurrence.

   (3) Nothing in this Act applies in relation to —

   (a) any occurrence before 21 November 2008; or

   (b) any occurrence in a series of occurrences having the same
        origin, if the first took place before that date.

                                    PART 2

       CIVIL LIABILITY FOR BUNKER OIL POLLUTION

                           Division 1 — Liability

Liability for bunker oil pollution

 3.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), where as a result of any
occurrence, any bunker oil is discharged or escapes from a ship,
the owner of the ship shall, except as otherwise provided by this Part,
be liable —

       (a) for any damage caused outside the ship in the territory of
            Singapore by contamination resulting from the discharge
            or escape;

       (b) for the cost of any measures reasonably taken after the
            discharge or escape for the purpose of preventing or
            minimising any damage so caused in the territory of
            Singapore by contamination resulting from the discharge
            or escape; and

       (c) for any damage caused in the territory of Singapore by any
            measures so taken.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), where as a result of any occurrence,
there arises a grave and imminent threat of damage being caused
outside a ship by the contamination that might result if there were a
discharge or an escape of bunker oil from the ship, the owner of the
ship shall, except as otherwise provided by this Part, be liable —

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
             Merchant Shipping (Civil

             Liability and Compensation for

2020 Ed.     Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008                          6

(a) for the cost of any measures reasonably taken to prevent or
     minimise any such damage in the territory of Singapore;
     and

(b) for any damage caused outside the ship in the territory of
     Singapore by any measures so taken,

and in this Act, any such threat is called a relevant threat of
contamination.

(3) There shall be no liability under this section in relation to —

(a) a discharge or an escape of bunker oil from a ship to which
     the Merchant Shipping (Civil Liability and Compensation
     for Oil Pollution) Act 1998 applies; or

(b) a threat mentioned in subsection (2) arising in relation to a
     potential discharge or escape of bunker oil from such a
     ship,

where that bunker oil is also persistent hydrocarbon mineral oil.

 (4) Where a person incurs a liability under subsection (1) or (2), the
person shall also be liable for any damage or cost for which the person
would be liable under subsection (1) or (2) if the references in that
subsection to the territory of Singapore included the territory of any
other Bunker Convention country.

(5) Where —

(a) as a result of any occurrence, a liability is incurred under
     this section by the owner of each of 2 or more ships; but

(b) the damage or cost of which each of the owners would be
     liable cannot reasonably be separated from that for which
     the other or others would be liable,

each of the owners shall be liable, jointly with the other or others, for
the whole of the damage or cost for which the owners together would
be liable under this section.

 (6) For the purposes of this section, references to the owner of a
ship are references to the owner at the time of the occurrence or first
of the occurrences, resulting in the discharge or escape of bunker oil

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
   Merchant Shipping (Civil

   Liability and Compensation for

7  Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008                           2020 Ed.

from the ship or giving rise to the relevant threat of contamination, as
the case may be.

 (7) The Contributory Negligence and Personal Injuries Act 1953

applies in relation to any damage or cost for which a person is liable
under this section, but which is not due to the person’s fault, as if it
were due to the person’s fault.

Exceptions from liability under section 3

 4. No liability shall be incurred by the owner of a ship under
section 3 by reason of any discharge or escape of bunker oil from the
ship, or by reason of any relevant threat of contamination, if the
owner proves that the discharge or escape, or the relevant threat of
contamination, as the case may be —

       (a) resulted from an act of war, hostilities, civil war,
            insurrection or an exceptional, inevitable and irresistible
            natural phenomenon;

       (b) was due wholly to anything done or left undone by another
            person, not being an employee or agent of the owner, with
            intent to do damage; or

       (c) was due wholly to the negligence or wrongful act of a
            government or other authority in exercising its functions of
            maintaining lights or other navigational aids for the
            maintenance of which it was responsible.

Restriction of liability for bunker oil pollution
 5.—(1) Where, as a result of any occurrence —

       (a) any bunker oil is discharged or escapes from a ship; or

       (b) there arises a relevant threat of contamination,

then, whether or not the owner of the ship in question incurs a liability
under section 3 —

       (c) the owner shall not be liable otherwise than under that
            section for any damage or cost mentioned in that section;
            and

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Merchant Shipping (Civil

          Liability and Compensation for

2020 Ed.  Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008                           8

(d) no person to whom this paragraph applies shall be liable
     for any such damage or cost unless it resulted from
     anything done or omitted to be done by the person either
     with intent to cause any such damage or cost or recklessly
     and in the knowledge that any such damage or cost would
     probably result.

(2) Subsection (1)(d) applies to —

(a) any servant or agent of the owner of the ship;

(b) any person not falling within paragraph (a) but employed
     or engaged in any capacity on board the ship or to perform
     any service for the ship;

          (c) any person performing salvage operations with the consent
              of the owner of the ship or on the instructions of a
              competent public authority;

(d) any person taking any of the measures mentioned in
     section 3(1)(b) or (2)(a); and

          (e) any servant or agent of a person falling within
              paragraph (c) or (d).

 (3) The liability of the owner of a ship under section 3 for any
impairment of the environment is taken to be a liability only in
respect of —

(a) any resulting loss of profits; and

(b) the cost of any reasonable measures of reinstatement
     actually taken or to be taken.

Limitation of liability under section 3

 6.—(1) Where, as a result of any occurrence, the owner of a ship
incurs a liability under section 3 by reason of a discharge or an escape
or by reason of any relevant threat of contamination, then, subject to
subsection (4), the owner may limit that liability in accordance with
and in the manner provided in section 136 of the Merchant Shipping
Act 1995, and if the owner does so the owner’s liability (being the
aggregate of his liabilities under section 3 resulting from the
occurrence) shall not exceed the relevant amount.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
   Merchant Shipping (Civil

   Liability and Compensation for

9  Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008                           2020 Ed.

 (2) In subsection (1), “the relevant amount” means the limit of
liability calculated in accordance with section 136 of the Merchant
Shipping Act 1995.

 (3) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, by order
in the Gazette, make such amendments to subsection (2) as may be
appropriate for the purpose of giving effect to the entry into force of
any amendment of the limits of liability laid down in Article 6 of the
Bunker Convention.

 (4) Subsection (1) does not apply in a case where it is proved that
the discharge or escape, or the relevant threat of contamination (as the
case may be) resulted from anything done or omitted to be done by
the owner either with intent to cause any such damage or cost as is
mentioned in section 3 or recklessly and in the knowledge that any
such damage or cost would probably result.

 (5) For the purposes of section 136 of the Merchant Shipping Act
1995, any liability incurred under section 3 is deemed to be a liability
to damages in respect of such damage to property mentioned in
paragraph 1(a) of Article 2 of the Convention on Limitation of
Liability for Maritime Claims 1976.

Limitation actions

 7.—(1) Where the owner of a ship has or is alleged to have incurred
a liability under section 3, the owner may apply to the Court for the
limitation of that liability to an amount determined in accordance
with section 6.

 (2) If on such an application the Court finds that the applicant has
incurred such a liability and is entitled to limit it, the Court, after
determining the limit of liability and directing payment into Court or
to the Authority of the amount of that limit, is to —

       (a) determine the amounts that would, apart from the limit, be
            due in respect of the liability to the several persons making
            claims in the proceedings; and

       (b) direct the distribution of the amount paid into Court or to
            the Authority (or, as the case may be, so much of it as does

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Merchant Shipping (Civil

          Liability and Compensation for

2020 Ed.  Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008                           10

          not exceed the liability) among those persons in proportion
          to their claims, subject to the provisions of this section.

 (3) A payment into Court or to the Authority of the amount of a
limit determined under this section must be made in Singapore
dollars, and —

(a) for the purpose of converting such an amount from special
     drawing rights into Singapore dollars, one special drawing
     right is treated as equal to such a sum in Singapore dollars
     as the International Monetary Fund has fixed as being the
     equivalent of one special drawing right for —

          (i) the day on which the determination is made; or

          (ii) if no sum has been so fixed for that day, the last day
               before that day for which a sum has been so fixed;

(b) a certificate given by or on behalf of the Minister for
     Finance stating —

          (i) that a particular sum in Singapore dollars had been so
              fixed for the day on which the determination was
              made; or

          (ii) that no sum had been so fixed for that day and that a
               particular sum in Singapore dollars had been so fixed
               for a day which was the last day for which a sum had
               been so fixed before the day on which the
               determination was made,

          is conclusive evidence of those matters for the purposes of
          this Part; and

          (c) a document purporting to be such a certificate shall, in any
              proceedings, be received in evidence and, unless the
              contrary is proved, is deemed to be such a certificate.

 (4) No claim may be admitted in proceedings under this section
unless it is made within such time as the Court may direct or such
further time as the Court may allow.

 (5) Where any sum has been paid in or towards satisfaction of any
claim in respect of the damage or cost to which the liability
extends —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Merchant Shipping (Civil

    Liability and Compensation for

11  Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008                           2020 Ed.

    (a) by the owner or the person referred to in section 14 as “the
         insurer”; or

    (b) by a person who has or is alleged to have incurred a
         liability, otherwise than under section 3, for the damage or
         cost and who is entitled to limit the person’s liability in
         connection with the ship by virtue of section 136 of the
         Merchant Shipping Act 1995,

the person who paid the sum shall, to the extent of that sum, be in the
same position with respect to any distribution made in proceedings
under this section as the person to whom it was paid would have been.

 (6) Where the person who incurred the liability has voluntarily
made any reasonable sacrifice or taken any other reasonable measures
to prevent or reduce damage to which the liability extends or might
have extended, the person shall be in the same position with respect to
any distribution made in proceedings under this section as if the
person had a claim in respect of the liability equal to the cost of the
sacrifice or other measures.

 (7) The Court may, if it thinks fit, postpone the distribution of such
part of the amount to be distributed as it considers appropriate having
regard to any claims that may later be established before a court of
any country outside Singapore.

 (8) The proportions in which any amount is distributed in
accordance with subsection (2)(b) are not affected by any lien or
other right in respect of any ship or other property.

Restriction on enforcement of claims after establishment of
limitation fund

 8. Where the Court has found that a person who has incurred a
liability under section 3 is entitled to limit that liability to any amount
and the person has paid into Court or to the Authority a sum not less
than that amount —

       (a) the Court shall order the release of any ship or other
            property arrested in connection with a claim in respect of
            that liability or any security given to prevent or obtain
            release from such an arrest; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Merchant Shipping (Civil

          Liability and Compensation for

2020 Ed.  Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008                           12

(b) no judgment or decree for any such claim shall be
     enforced, except so far as it is for costs,

if the sum paid into Court or to the Authority, or such part thereof as
corresponds to the claim, will be actually available to the claimant or
would have been available to the claimant if the proper steps in the
proceedings under section 7 had been taken.

Concurrent liabilities of owners and others

 9. Where, as a result of any discharge or escape of bunker oil from a
ship or as a result of any relevant threat of contamination, the owner
of the ship incurs a liability under section 3 and any other person
incurs a liability, otherwise than under that section, for any such
damage or cost mentioned in subsection (1) or (2) of that section,
then, if —

       (a) the owner has been found, in proceedings under section 7,
            to be entitled to limit the owner’s liability to any amount
            and has paid into Court or to the Authority a sum not less
            than that amount; and

       (b) the other person is entitled to limit the person’s liability in
            connection with the ship by virtue of section 136 of the
            Merchant Shipping Act 1995,

no proceedings shall be taken against the other person in respect of
the person’s liability, and if any such proceedings were commenced
before the owner paid the sum into Court or to the Authority, no
further steps shall be taken in the proceedings except in relation to
costs.

Establishment of limitation fund outside Singapore

 10. Where the events resulting in the liability of any person under
section 3 also resulted in a corresponding liability under the law of
another Bunker Convention country, sections 8 and 9 apply as if —

       (a) the references to sections 3 and 7 included references to the
            corresponding provisions of that law; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Merchant Shipping (Civil

    Liability and Compensation for

13  Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008                           2020 Ed.

    (b) the references to sums paid into Court included references
         to any sums secured under these provisions in respect of
         the liability.

Extinguishment of claims

 11. No action to enforce a claim in respect of a liability incurred
under section 3 may be entertained by any court in Singapore unless
the action is commenced —

       (a) not later than 3 years after the claim arose; and

       (b) not later than 6 years after the occurrence, or first of the
            occurrences, resulting in the discharge or escape or in the
            relevant threat of contamination (as the case may be) by
            reason of which the liability was incurred.

                   Division 2 — Compulsory Insurance

Compulsory insurance against liability for bunker oil pollution

 12.—(1) Subsection (2) applies to any ship having a gross tonnage
greater than 1,000.

 (2) The ship must not enter or leave any port in Singapore or enter
or leave any offshore facility in the territorial sea of Singapore and
must not, if it is a Singapore ship, enter or leave any port in any other
country or any offshore facility in the territorial sea of any other
country, unless there is in force —

       (a) a contract of insurance or other security in respect of the
            ship satisfying the requirements of Article 7 of the Bunker
            Convention; and

       (b) a certificate complying with subsection (3) and showing
            that there is in force in respect of the ship a contract of
            insurance or other security satisfying those requirements.

 (3) The certificate shall be —

       (a) if the ship is a Singapore ship — a certificate issued by the
            Director;

       (b) if the ship is registered in a Bunker Convention country
            other than Singapore — a certificate issued by or under the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Merchant Shipping (Civil

          Liability and Compensation for

2020 Ed.  Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008                           14

          authority of the government of that other Bunker
          Convention country; and

          (c) if the ship is registered in a country which is not a Bunker
              Convention country — a certificate issued by the Director
              or by or under the authority of the government of any
              Bunker Convention country other than Singapore.

 (4) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, by
regulations provide that certificates in respect of ships registered in
any country or any specified country which is not a Bunker
Convention country are, in such circumstances as may be specified
in the regulations, recognised for the purposes of subsection (3)(c) if
the certificates are issued by or under the authority of the government
of the country designated in the regulations in that behalf; and the
country that may be so designated may be either or both of the
following:

(a) the country in which the ship is registered;

(b) any country specified in the regulations for the purposes of
     this subsection.

 (5) Any certificate required by this section to be in force in respect
of a ship must be carried in the ship and must, on demand, be
produced by the master to any officer of the Authority and, if the ship
is a Singapore ship, to any consular officer within the meaning of the
Merchant Shipping Act 1995.

 (6) If a ship enters or leaves, or attempts to enter or leave a port or
the territorial sea in contravention of subsection (2), the master or the
registered owner of the ship shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1 million.

 (7) If a ship fails to carry, or the master of a ship fails to produce, a
certificate as required under subsection (5), the master of the ship
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000.

 (8) If a ship attempts to leave a port in, or the territorial sea of,
Singapore in contravention of this section, the ship may be detained
by the Director or the officers of the Authority or any police officer or
any commissioned officer on full pay in the Singapore Armed Forces.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Merchant Shipping (Civil

    Liability and Compensation for

15  Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008                           2020 Ed.

 (9) Section 209 of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 applies, with
the necessary modifications, to the detention of a ship under this Act.

Issue of certificates

 13.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), if the Director is satisfied, on an
application for a certificate mentioned in section 12 in respect of a
Singapore ship or a ship registered in any country which is not a
Bunker Convention country, that there will be in force in respect of
the ship, throughout the period for which the certificate is to be
issued, a contract of insurance or other security satisfying the
requirements of Article 7 of the Bunker Convention, the Director may
issue such a certificate to the owner.

 (2) If the Director is of the opinion that there is any doubt whether
the person providing the insurance or other security will be able to
meet the person’s obligations thereunder, or whether the insurance or
other security will cover the owner’s liability under section 3 in all
circumstances, the Director may refuse to issue the certificate.

 (3) The Director must maintain a record of any certificate issued
under this section in respect of a Singapore ship which must be
available for public inspection.

Rights of third parties against insurers

 14.—(1) Where it is alleged that the owner of a ship has incurred a
liability under section 3 as a result of any discharge or escape of
bunker oil occurring, or as a result of any relevant threat of
contamination arising, while there was in force a contract of
insurance or other security to which a certificate mentioned in
section 12 is related, proceedings to enforce a claim in respect of the
liability may be brought against the person who provided the
insurance or other security (called in this Act the insurer).

 (2) In any proceedings brought against the insurer by virtue of this
section, it is a defence (in addition to any defence affecting the
owner’s liability) to prove that the discharge or escape or the relevant
threat of contamination (as the case may be) was due to the wilful
misconduct of the owner.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Merchant Shipping (Civil

          Liability and Compensation for

2020 Ed.  Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008                           16

 (3) The insurer may limit the insurer’s liability in respect of claims
made against the insurer by virtue of this section in like manner and to
the same extent as the owner may limit the owner’s liability but the
insurer may do so whether or not the discharge or escape or the
relevant threat of contamination (as the case may be) resulted from
anything done or omitted to be done by the owner as mentioned in
section 6(4).

 (4) Where the owner and the insurer each apply to the Court for the
limitation of the liability of the owner or the insurer (as the case may
be), any sum paid into Court in pursuance of either application is
treated as paid also in pursuance of the other.

                       Division 3 — Supplementary

Jurisdiction of Singapore courts and registration of foreign
judgments

 15.—(1) Section 3(1)(d) of the High Court (Admiralty Jurisdiction)
Act 1961 is to be construed as extending to any claim in respect of a
liability incurred by the owner of a ship under this Part.

 (2) Where —

       (a) any bunker oil is discharged or escapes from a ship but
            does not result in any damage caused by contamination in
            the territory of Singapore and no measures are reasonably
            taken to prevent or minimise such damage in that territory;
            or

       (b) any relevant threat of contamination arises but no measures
            are reasonably taken to prevent or minimise such damage
            in the territory of Singapore,

no court in Singapore shall entertain any action (whether in rem or in
personam) to enforce a claim arising from any relevant damage or
cost —

       (c) against the owner of the ship;

       (d) against any person to whom section 5(1)(d) applies, unless
            any such damage or cost resulted from anything done or
            omitted to be done by such person either with intent to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Merchant Shipping (Civil

    Liability and Compensation for

17  Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008                           2020 Ed.

    cause any such damage or cost or recklessly and in the
    knowledge that any such damage or cost would probably
    result; or

    (e) against any person taking any of the measures mentioned
        in subsection (3)(a) or (b), unless any such damage or cost
        resulted from anything done or omitted to be done by such
        person either with intent to cause any such damage or cost
        or recklessly and in the knowledge that any such damage or
        cost would probably result.

(3) In subsection (2), “relevant damage or cost” means —

    (a) in relation to any discharge or escape mentioned in
         subsection (2)(a), any damage caused in the territory of
         another Bunker Convention country by contamination
         resulting from the discharge or escape, or any cost incurred
         in taking measures to prevent or minimise such damage in
         the territory of another Bunker Convention country;

    (b) in relation to any relevant threat of contamination
         mentioned in subsection (2)(b), any cost incurred in
         taking measures to prevent or minimise such damage in
         the territory of another Bunker Convention country; or

    (c) any damage caused by any measures mentioned in
        paragraph (a) or (b).

 (4) Part 1 of the Reciprocal Enforcement of Foreign Judgments
Act 1959 applies (whether or not it would so apply apart from this
section) to any judgment given by a court in a Bunker Convention
country to enforce a claim in respect of a liability incurred under any
provision corresponding to section 3, and in its application to such a
judgment that Part has effect with the omission of section 5(3) and (4)
of that Act.

Restriction on enforcement of judgments given by court in
country not party to Bunker Convention

 16. Despite Part 1 of the Reciprocal Enforcement of Foreign
Judgments Act 1959 and any rule of law relating to the recognition
and enforcement of foreign judgments, any judgment given by a court

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Merchant Shipping (Civil

          Liability and Compensation for

2020 Ed.  Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008                           18

in a country which is not a Bunker Convention country in respect of
any liability for bunker oil pollution incurred by the owner of a ship in
that country may be recognised and enforced by the Court only up to
the limit of liability prescribed by section 6.

Government ship

 17.—(1) Despite the other provisions of this Part, this Part does not
apply in relation to any warship or any ship for the time being used by
the government of any State otherwise than for commercial purposes.

 (2) In relation to a ship owned by a State and for the time being used
for commercial purposes, it is a sufficient compliance with
section 12(2) if there is in force a certificate issued by the
government of that State and showing that the ship is owned by
that State and that any liability for pollution damage as defined in
Article 1 of the Bunker Convention will be met up to the limit
prescribed by Article 7 of the Bunker Convention.

 (3) Every Bunker Convention State is, for the purposes of any
proceedings brought in a court in Singapore to enforce a claim in
respect of a liability incurred under section 3, deemed to have
submitted to the jurisdiction of that court, and accordingly Rules of
Court may provide for the manner in which those proceedings are to
be commenced and carried on.

 (4) Nothing in subsection (3) authorises the issue of an enforcement
order against the property of any State.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Saving for recourse actions

 18. Nothing in this Part prejudices any claim, or the enforcement of
any claim, a person incurring any liability under this Part may have
against another person in respect of that liability.

Power to detain ship

 19.—(1) Where the Authority has reasonable cause to believe that
any bunker oil has been discharged or has escaped from any ship or
that a relevant threat of contamination has arisen, and the owner of the
ship has incurred a liability under section 3 and the damage only
affects, or is likely only to affect, the territory of Singapore, the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Merchant Shipping (Civil

    Liability and Compensation for

19  Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008                           2020 Ed.

Authority may detain the ship and the ship may be so detained until

the owner of the ship deposits with the Authority an amount which
meets the owner’s liability or provides such security which will, in
the opinion of the Authority, be adequate to meet the owner’s liability.

 (2) If any ship is detained under this Act and the ship proceeds to
sea before it is released by the Authority, the master of the ship, and
also the owner of the ship and any person who sends the ship to sea, if
that owner or person is party or privy to the act of sending the ship to
sea, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 2 years or to both.

Power of arrest

 20. Any officer of the Authority or any police officer may arrest
without warrant any person who has committed or whom he or she
reasonably believes to have committed an offence under this Part and
bring the person before a District Court or a Magistrate’s Court (as the
case may be) to be dealt with according to law.

Sale of ship

 21. Where the owner or the master of a ship has been convicted of
an offence under the provisions of this Part and any fine imposed
under this Part is not paid at the time ordered by the Court, the Court
may, in addition to any powers for enforcing payment, direct the
amount remaining unpaid to be levied by distress and sale of the ship,
her tackle, furniture and apparel.

                                    PART 3

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Director may authorise person to exercise powers and duties

 22. The powers conferred and the duties imposed on the Director
under this Act may, subject to his or her directions, be exercised and
carried out by any officer of the Authority generally or specially
authorised by name or office by the Director.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Merchant Shipping (Civil

          Liability and Compensation for

2020 Ed.  Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008                           20

Power to board and search ship

 23.—(1) The Director may, where he or she has reason to believe
that an offence has been committed under this Act —

(a) board and search any ship;

(b) enter and search any premises; or

          (c) summon any person before the Director and require the
              person to answer questions,

and the Director may carry out such inspection and examination as he
or she may consider necessary and may seize any book, paper,
document, record, electronic material or other thing found in those
places which may provide evidence of the commission of an offence
under this Act and may make copies of, or take extracts from or
samples of, such book, paper, document, record, electronic material
or other thing.

 (2) Any person who assaults, hinders, impedes or obstructs the
Director in the performance of his or her duties under this section
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (3) In this section, “Director” includes an officer of the Authority
authorised by the Director to exercise any of the powers mentioned in
subsection (1).

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 24.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                 Merchant Shipping (Civil

                 Liability and Compensation for

21               Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008              2020 Ed.

a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

    (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
         a partner; or

    (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of a partner,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

    (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
         an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
         its governing body; or

    (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such officer
         or member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(5) In this section —

    “body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership which
       has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Limited
       Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

    “officer” —

    (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
         partner, member of the committee of management,
         chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the body corporate and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity; or

    (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
         than a partnership), means the president, the
         secretary, or any member of the committee of the
         unincorporated association, or any person holding a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Merchant Shipping (Civil

          Liability and Compensation for

2020 Ed.  Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008                           22

          position analogous to that of president, secretary or
          member of a committee and includes any person
          purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (6) The Minister may, by regulations, provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with such modifications as the Minister
considers appropriate, to any body corporate or unincorporated
association formed or recognised under the law of a territory outside
Singapore.

Protection from personal liability

 25. No action, suit or other legal proceeding shall lie personally
against the Director, any officer of the Authority or any other person
acting under the direction of the Director or the Authority for
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in the
execution or purported execution of this Act.

Jurisdiction of court

 26. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment in
respect of the offence.

Composition of offences

 27.—(1) The Director may compound any offence under this Act
which is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
not exceeding $2,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings may
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations to prescribe the offences which may be compounded.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Merchant Shipping (Civil

    Liability and Compensation for

23  Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008                           2020 Ed.

All moneys recovered to be paid to Authority

 28. All moneys recovered or charges or composition sums collected
under this Act must be paid into and form part of the moneys of the
Authority.

Regulations

 29.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this
Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may, with the
approval of the Minister, make regulations for or with respect to all or
any of the following matters:

       (a) prescribing the amount of fees to be paid on an application
            for the issue of a certificate under section 13(1);

       (b) providing for the cancellation and delivery up to the
            Director of a certificate issued under section 13(1);

       (c) providing for matters relating to the conversion of amounts
            mentioned in section 7(3) from special drawing rights to
            such sums in Singapore dollars;

       (d) providing for any other matter which is required or
            authorised by any provision of this Act to be provided
            for by regulations;

       (e) prescribing offences in respect of the contravention of any
            regulations made under this section, and prescribe fines not
            exceeding $10,000 or imprisonment which may not exceed
            12 months or both, that may, on conviction, be imposed in
            respect of any such offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

           MERCHANT SHIPPING (CIVIL
      LIABILITY AND COMPENSATION FOR
       BUNKER OIL POLLUTION) ACT 2008

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 24 of 2008 — Merchant Shipping (Civil Liability and Compensation
                          for Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008

Bill                  : 20/2008

First Reading         : 25 August 2008

Second and Third Readings : 16 September 2008

Commencement          : 21 November 2008

2. 2010 Revised Edition — Merchant Shipping (Civil Liability and
                                    Compensation for Bunker Oil Pollution) Act
                                    (Chapter 179A)

Operation             : 1 January 2010

3. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 100 of the Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 100 of the Schedule)

4. 2020 Revised Edition — Merchant Shipping (Civil
                                    Liability and Compensation for
                                    Bunker Oil Pollution) Act 2008

Operation             : 31 December 2021

5. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
   (Amendments made by Part 7 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 18/2021

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
       First Reading                ii
       Second and Third Readings  : 26 July 2021
       Commencement               : 14 September 2021
                                  : 1 April 2022

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
