THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
          MARITIME CONVENTIONS ACT 1911

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                                   2020 Ed.

Maritime Conventions Act 1911

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PROVISIONS AS TO COLLISIONS, ETC.

Section  Rule as to division of loss
         Damages for personal injuries
     1.  Right of contribution
     2.  [Omitted]
     3.  Jurisdiction in cases of loss of life or personal injury
     4.
     5.

                                       PART 2
                       PROVISIONS AS TO SALVAGE

6. General duty to render assistance to persons in danger at sea
7. [Repealed]

                                        PART 3

                             GENERAL PROVISIONS

 8. Limitation of actions
 9. Application of Act
10. Short title and construction

An Act to amend the law relating to merchant shipping with a view to
  enabling certain conventions to be carried into effect.

                                                         [16 December 1911]

  Whereas at the Conference held at Brussels in 1910 two
conventions, dealing respectively with collisions between vessels
and with salvage, were signed on behalf of His Majesty, and it is
desirable that such amendments should be made in the law relating to
merchant shipping as will enable effect to be given to the
conventions:

                                                           1

                                                                                              31.12.2021
2  Maritime Conventions Act 1911      2020 Ed.

                             PART 1

   PROVISIONS AS TO COLLISIONS, ETC.

Rule as to division of loss

 1.—(1) Where, by the fault of 2 or more ships, damage or loss is
caused to one or more of those ships, to their cargoes or freight, or to
any property on board, the liability to make good the damage or loss
shall be in proportion to the degree in which each ship was in fault,
except that if, having regard to all the circumstances of the case, it is
not possible to establish different degrees of fault, the liability shall
be apportioned equally.

 (2) Nothing in this section shall operate so as to render any ship
liable for any loss or damage to which her fault has not contributed.

 (3) Nothing in this section shall affect the liability of any person
under a contract of carriage or any contract, or shall be construed as
imposing any liability upon any person from which he is exempted by
any contract or by any provision of law, or as affecting the right of any
person to limit his liability in the manner provided by law.

 (4) For the purposes of this Act, “freight” includes passage money
and hire, and references to damage or loss caused by the fault of a ship
shall be construed as including references to any salvage or other
expenses, consequent upon that fault, recoverable at law by way of
damages.

Damages for personal injuries

 2.—(1) Where loss of life or personal injuries are suffered by any
person on board a ship owing to the fault of that ship and of any other
ship or ships, the liability of the owners of the ships shall be joint and
several.

 (2) Nothing in this section —

       (a) shall be construed as depriving any person of any right of
            defence on which, independently of this section, he might
            have relied in an action brought against him by the person
            injured, or any person or persons entitled to sue in respect
            of such loss of life; or
2020 Ed.  Maritime Conventions Act 1911  3

(b) shall affect the right of any person to limit his liability in
     cases to which this section relates in the manner provided
     by law.

Right of contribution

 3.—(1) Where loss of life or personal injuries are suffered by any
person on board a ship owing to the fault of that ship and any other
ship or ships, and a proportion of the damages is recovered against the
owners of one of the ships which exceeds the proportion in which she
was in fault, they may recover by way of contribution the amount of
the excess from the owners of the other ship or ships to the extent to
which those ships were respectively in fault.

 (2) No amount shall be recovered under subsection (1) which could
not, by reason of any statutory or contractual limitation of, or
exemption from, liability, or which could not for any other reason,
have been recovered in the first instance as damages by the persons
entitled to sue therefor.

 (3) In addition to any other remedy provided by law, the persons
entitled to any such contribution as aforesaid shall, for the purpose of
recovering the same, have, subject to the provisions of this Act, the
same rights and powers as the persons entitled to sue for damages in
the first instance.

 4. [Omitted in 2004 Revised Edition]

Jurisdiction in cases of loss of life or personal injury

 5. Any enactment which confers on any court admiralty jurisdiction
in respect of damage shall have effect as though references to such
damage included references to damages for loss of life or personal
injury, and accordingly proceedings in respect of such damages may
be brought in rem (against the thing) or in personam (against the
person).

                                         31.12.2021
4  Maritime Conventions Act 1911   2020 Ed.

   PART 2

   PROVISIONS AS TO SALVAGE

General duty to render assistance to persons in danger at sea

 6.—(1) The master or person in charge of a ship shall, so far as he
can do so without serious danger to his own ship, her crew and
passengers (if any), render assistance to every person, even if such
person be a subject of a foreign State at war with Singapore, who is
found at sea in danger of being lost, and, if he fails to do so, he shall be
guilty of an offence.

 (2) Compliance by the master or person in charge of a ship with the
provisions of this section shall not affect his right or the right of any
other person to salvage.

   7. [Repealed by Act 3 of 2019]

                                    PART 3

                         GENERAL PROVISIONS

Limitation of actions

 8.—(1) No action shall be maintainable to enforce any claim or lien
against a ship or her owners in respect of any damage or loss to
another ship, her cargo or freight, or any property on board her, or
damages for loss of life or personal injuries suffered by any person on
board her, caused by the fault of the former ship, whether such ship be
wholly or partly in fault, unless proceedings therein are commenced
within 2 years from the date when the damage, loss or injury was
caused.

                                                                                                             [3/2019]

 (2) An action shall not be maintainable under this Act to enforce
any contribution in respect of an overpaid proportion of any damages
for loss of life or personal injuries unless proceedings therein are
commenced within one year from the date of payment.

 (3) Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2), any court having
jurisdiction to deal with an action to which this section relates —
2020 Ed.  Maritime Conventions Act 1911  5

(a) may, in accordance with the Rules of Court, extend any
     such period, to such extent and on such conditions as it
     thinks fit; and

(b) shall, if satisfied that there has not during such period been
     any reasonable opportunity of arresting the defendant ship
     within the jurisdiction of the court, or within the territorial
     waters of the country to which the plaintiff’s ship belongs
     or in which the plaintiff resides or has his principal place of
     business, extend any such period to an extent sufficient to
     give such reasonable opportunity.

Application of Act

 9.—(1) This Act shall extend throughout His Majesty’s dominions
and to any territories under his protection, and to Cyprus.

 (2) This Act shall not extend to the Dominion of Canada, the
Commonwealth of Australia, the Dominion of New Zealand, the
Union of South Africa, and Newfoundland.

 (3) This Act shall not apply in any case in which proceedings have
been taken before the passing thereof and all such cases shall be
determined as though this Act had not been passed.

 (4) This Act shall apply to any persons other than the owners
responsible for the fault of the ship as though the expression “owners”
included such persons.

 (5) In any case where, by virtue of any charter or demise, or for any
other reason, the owners are not responsible for the navigation and
management of the ship, this Act shall be read as though for
references to the owners there were substituted references to the
charterers or other persons for the time being so responsible.

Short title and construction

 10. This Act may be cited as the Maritime Conventions Act 1911,
and shall be construed as one with the Merchant Shipping Act 1995.

                                         31.12.2021
               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
      MARITIME CONVENTIONS ACT 1911

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. 1 & 2 Geo. V, c. 57 — Maritime Conventions Act, 1911

Commencement   : 16 December 1911

Note: This Act was declared by the Application of English Law Act 1993 to
        apply or continue to apply in Singapore.

2. 2004 Revised Edition — Maritime Conventions Act 1911

Operation      : 31 December 2004

3. Act 3 of 2019 — Merchant Shipping (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act
                          2019

   (Amendments made by sections 18 and 19 of the above Act)

Bill           : 49/2018

First Reading  : 19 November 2018

Second and Third Readings : 14 January 2019

Commencement   : 24 July 2021 (sections 18 and 19)

                                                         31.12.2021
                             ii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
         COMPARATIVE TABLE
MARITIME CONVENTIONS ACT 1911

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                  2004 Ed.
[Omitted in 2004 Revised Edition]
[Omitted in 2004 Revised Edition]  4—(1)
                                      (2)

                                                     31.12.2021
