THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
               HEALTH PRODUCTS ACT 2007

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                                                                   2020 Ed.

         Health Products Act 2007

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
         Interpretation
     1.  Purposes of Act
     2.  Act to apply only to health products specified in First Schedule
     3.  Act not to apply to supply or use of health products and active
     4.  ingredients for veterinary purposes
     5.

                                        PART 2

                                ADMINISTRATION

 6. Administration of Act
 7. Appointment of enforcement officers
 8. Designation of analysts
 9. Enforcement officers and analysts deemed to be public officers
10. Advisory Committees
11. Appeal Advisory Committees

                                        PART 3
       MANUFACTURE AND IMPORT OF HEALTH PRODUCTS

12. Manufacture of health products
13. Import of health products

                                        PART 4

                      SUPPLY OF HEALTH PRODUCTS

14. Wholesaling of health products
15. Prohibition against supply of unregistered health products
16. Prohibition against supply of health products that are

         adulterated, counterfeits, etc.

                                                   1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                        2

Section   Supply of health products to be carried out in accordance with
   17.    prescribed requirements
          Presentation of health products
   18.

                                        PART 5

               ADVERTISEMENT OF HEALTH PRODUCTS

19. Advertisement of health products
20. False or misleading advertisement
21. Further requirements for advertisement of health products
22. Defences
23. Corrective measures in relation to contravening advertisements

                                        PART 6

                                      LICENCES

24. Issue and renewal of licences
25. Variation of licence conditions on application by licensee
26. Register of licensees
27. Suspension and revocation of licence and cancellation of

         approval
28. Appeal

                                        PART 7

                 REGISTRATION OF HEALTH PRODUCTS

29. Health products to be registered according to categories in First
         Schedule

30. Registration of health products
31. Duration of registration
32. Conditions of registration
33. Evaluation of health products
34. Register of Health Products
35. Re‑categorisation or re‑classification of health products on

         application of registrant
36. Power to re‑categorise or re‑classify health products in absence

         of application by registrant
37. Suspension and cancellation of registration
38. Appeal

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
3        Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

         PART 8

   DUTIES OF MANUFACTURERS, IMPORTERS, ETC., OF HEALTH
                                       PRODUCTS

Section  Application of this Part
         Keeping of records
   39.   Furnishing of information or document regarding health product
   40.   Reporting of defects and adverse effects to Authority
   41.   Verification of quality, safety and efficacy of health product
   42.   Notification to Authority concerning recall of health product
   43.   Additional duties under regulations
   44.
   45.

                                           PART 9

          REGULATION OF DEALINGS IN ACTIVE INGREDIENTS

   46. Active ingredients to which this Part applies
   47. Regulation of manufacture, import, supply, etc., of active

            ingredients

                                          PART 10

                                     ENFORCEMENT

   48. Non-compliant health products and active ingredients
   49. Powers of enforcement
   50. Unlawful alteration, destruction, etc., of documents
   51. Obstructing officers in execution of their duties

                                           PART 11

                                 PRESUMPTIONS AND
                       OTHER EVIDENTIARY PROVISIONS
                 FOR PURPOSES OF ENFORCEMENT OF ACT

   52. Presumption as to liability of importers and manufacturers
   53. Presumption as to identity of advertiser
   54. Presumption as to purpose for which health product is

            manufactured, imported or supplied
   55. Presumption as to similarity in properties between health

            products, etc., found and sample taken therefrom
   56. Presumption of person’s intention to supply health product

            found in person’s possession
   57. Evidence of analyst

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                       4

          PART 12

          OFFENCES AND PROSECUTION

Section   Jurisdiction of court
          Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
   58.    Enhanced penalty for corporations
   59.    Liability for offences by agents or employees
   60.    Forfeiture
   61.    Recovery of fees and other expenses incidental to prosecution
   62.    Non-disclosure of information
   63.    Composition of offences
   64.
   65.

                                       PART 13

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

66. Protection of confidential information
67. Service of documents
68. Form and authentication of notices, orders and other documents
69. Inaccuracies in documents
70. Exemption
71. Fees
72. Regulations

                                       PART 14

                        REGULATION OF SUPPLY AND
                     USE OF HEALTH PRODUCTS AND

                          ACTIVE INGREDIENTS FOR
                            VETERINARY PURPOSES

73. Supply and use of health products and active ingredients for
         veterinary purposes

74. Powers of officers enforcing regulations made under section 73
75. Application of Parts 10 to 13

         First Schedule — Categories and descriptions of
                                   health products to which Act applies

         Second Schedule — Matters for or in respect of
                                   which regulations may be made
                                   under section 72

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
5  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

An Act to regulate the manufacture, import, supply, presentation and
  advertisement of health products and of active ingredients used in
  the manufacture of health products and provide for matters
  connected therewith.

   [1 November 2007: Except Part 14 ]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1.—(1) This Act is the Health Products Act 2007.

 (2) Part 14 comes into operation on such date as the Minister
charged with the responsibility for national development may, by
notification in the Gazette, appoint.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “active ingredient” means any substance or compound that is
         usable in the manufacture of a health product as a
         pharmacologically active constituent;

      “adverse effect”, in relation to a health product, means any
         debilitating, harmful, toxic or detrimental effect that the
         health product has been found to have or to be likely to have
         on the body or health of humans when the health product is
         used by or administered to humans;

      “advertisement”, in relation to a health product, means the
         publication, dissemination or conveyance of any information
         for the purpose of promoting, whether directly or indirectly,
         the sale or use of that health product by any means or in any
         form, including the following:

              (a) publication in a newspaper, magazine, journal or
                   other periodical;

              (b) display of posters or notices;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  6

          (c) circulars, handbills, brochures, pamphlets, books or
              other documents;

          (d) letters addressed to individuals or bodies corporate or
               unincorporate;

          (e) photographs or cinematograph films;

          (f) sound broadcasting, television, the Internet or other
              media;

          (g) public demonstration of the use of the health product;

          (h) offer of trials of the health product to members of the
               public;

“analyst” means any person who is designated as an analyst by
   the Chief Executive under section 8;

“Appeal Advisory Committee” means an Appeal Advisory
   Committee established by the Minister under section 11;

“Authority” means the Health Sciences Authority established
   under section 3 of the Health Sciences Authority Act 2001;

“Chief Executive” means the person appointed under section 15
   of the Health Sciences Authority Act 2001 to be the Chief
   Executive of the Authority;

“clinical trial” means an investigation in respect of a health
   product that involves human subjects and that is intended
   to —

          (a) discover or verify its clinical, pharmacological or
               pharmacodynamic effects;

          (b) identify any adverse effect that may arise from its
               use;

          (c) study its absorption, distribution, metabolism and
              excretion; or

          (d) ascertain its safety or efficacy;

“efficacy”, in relation to a health product that is a device,
   includes the ability of the device to properly carry out its
   intended purpose;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
7  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

   “enforcement officer” means —

   (a) the Chief Executive; or

   (b) any officer of the Authority or any other person who
        is appointed by the Chief Executive under section 7
        to be an enforcement officer;

   “health product” means any substance, preparation or device —

   (a) that —

   (i) is represented for use by humans;

   (ii) whether because of its presentation or
        otherwise, is likely to be taken for use by
        humans; or

   (iii) is included in a class of substances,
         preparations or devices which are or are
         ordinarily intended for use by humans,

   (a) solely or principally for a health-related purpose; and

   (b) that falls within any of the categories of health
        products specified in the First Schedule;

   “health-related purpose” means a therapeutic, preventive,
      palliative, diagnostic or cosmetic purpose, or any other
      purpose for the promotion or preservation of human health
      and wellbeing, and includes the following:

   (a) preventing, diagnosing, monitoring, treating, curing
        or alleviating any disease, disorder, ailment, injury,
        handicap or abnormal physical or mental state, or the
        symptoms thereof, in humans;

   (b) compensating for any injury or handicap in humans;

   (c) investigating, modifying or replacing any part of the
       human anatomy or any physiological process in
       humans;

   (d) testing the susceptibility of humans to any disease,
        disorder or ailment;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  8

          (e) influencing, controlling or preventing conception in
              humans;

          (f) testing for pregnancy in humans;

          (g) inducing anaesthesia in humans;

          (h) destroying or inhibiting micro-organisms that may be
               harmful to humans;

          (i) cleansing, fragrancing, deodorising, beautifying,
              preserving, improving, altering or restoring the
              complexion, skin, hair, nails or teeth of humans;

“importer’s licence” means a licence authorising the holder of
   the licence to import any health product;

“intended purpose”, in relation to a health product, means the
   use for which the health product is intended according to the
   specifications of its manufacturer as stated on all or any of the
   following:

          (a) the label of the health product;

          (b) the instructions for use of the health product;

          (c) the promotional materials in relation to the health
              product;

“label”, in relation to a health product or an active ingredient,
   means any written, printed or graphic representation that
   appears on or is attached to the health product or active
   ingredient or any part of its packaging, and includes any
   informational sheet or leaflet that accompanies the health
   product or active ingredient when it is being supplied;

“licence” means any licence issued by the Authority under this
   Act;

“manufacture”, in relation to a health product, means to make,
   fabricate, produce or process the health product and
   includes —

          (a) any process carried out in the course of so making,
               fabricating, producing or processing the health
               product; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
9  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

   (b) the packaging and labelling of the health product
        before it is supplied;

   “manufacturer’s licence” means a licence authorising the holder
      of the licence to manufacture any health product;

   “Minister” means, except in Part 14, the Minister charged with
      the responsibility for health;

   “National Parks Board” means the National Parks Board
      established by the repealed National Parks Act (Cap. 198A,
      1991 Revised Edition) as in force before 1 July 1996 and
      continued by section 3 of the National Parks Board Act 1996;

   “packaging”, in relation to a health product or an active
      ingredient, means the container and other packaging
      material in which the health product or active ingredient is
      supplied;

   “presentation”, in relation to a health product, means the way in
      which the health product is presented for supply, and includes
      matters relating to the name of the health product, the
      packaging and labelling of the health product and any other
      informational material associated with the health product;

   “prohibited substance” means a substance that is prescribed as a
      substance that is not to be contained at all in any health
      product or in any particular category of health products;

   “recall”, in relation to a health product, means any action taken
      by its manufacturer, importer, supplier or registrant to
      remove the health product from the market or to retrieve
      the health product from any person to whom it has been
      supplied, because the health product —

   (a) may be hazardous to health;

   (b) may fail to conform to any claim made by its
        manufacturer or importer relating to its quality, safety
        or efficacy; or

   (c) may not meet the requirements of this Act;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  10

“Register of Health Products” means the Register of Health
   Products kept and maintained by the Authority under
   section 34;

“registered health product” means a health product currently
   registered under Part 7;

“registrant”, in relation to a registered health product, means the
   person who applied for and obtained the registration of the
   health product under this Act;

“regulations” means regulations made under section 72;

“sample”, in relation to a health product or an active ingredient,
   includes a sample of the packaging of the health product or
   active ingredient;

“supply”, in relation to a health product, means to transfer
   possession of the health product by any means whether or not
   for reward, and includes the following:

          (a) to sell the health product, whether by retail,
               wholesale or auction;

          (b) to expose or display the health product as an
               invitation to treat;

          (c) to transfer possession of the health product by
              exchange, gift, lease, loan, hire or hire-purchase;

          (d) to supply the health product in connection with —

          (i) a contract for the provision of any goods or the
              performance of any service; or

          (ii) any advertising, sponsorship or promotional
               activity;

          (e) to supply the health product by way of administration
              to or application in any person in the course of any
              diagnosis, treatment or test;

          (f) to offer, agree or attempt to supply the health product
              in any of the ways described in paragraphs (a) to (e)
              or to cause or permit the health product to be so
              supplied;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
11  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

    (g) to keep or possess the health product for the purpose
         of supplying it in any of the ways described in
         paragraphs (a) to (f);

    “veterinarian” means a person who is licensed under section 53
       of the Animals and Birds Act 1965 to treat, vaccinate or
       inoculate any animal or bird;

    “wholesale”, in relation to a health product, means any one or
       more of the following:

    (a) supplying the health product to a person who obtains
         the health product for the purposes of supplying it
         again to some other person;

    (b) supplying the health product to a person as a
         commercial sample in the normal course of a
         lawful trade;

    (c) supplying the health product to a Government
        department or statutory body which requires the
        health product for the purposes of the public service
        or use in connection with the exercise of any statutory
        power;

    (d) supplying the health product to a person or an
         institution concerned with scientific education or
         research which requires the health product for the
         purpose of education or research;

    (e) supplying the health product to a person who requires
        the health product for the purpose of enabling the
        person to comply with any requirements made by, or
        pursuant to, any written law with respect to the
        medical treatment of individuals employed by that
        person in any business or trade carried out by that
        person;

    (f) supplying the health product to a person who requires
        to use the health product, other than by way of
        administration to one or more individuals, for the
        purpose of the person’s business or trade;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  12

          (g) supplying the health product by export to a party
               outside Singapore;

    “wholesaler’s licence” means a licence authorising the holder of
        the licence to supply any health product by wholesale.

                                                                                                         [10/2019]

(2) For the purposes of this Act —

(a) a health product is adulterated if it contains or has been
     mixed with any substance or ingredient that is not stated on
     its label as being one of its constituent substances or
     ingredients, except where the substance is an inactive
     ingredient —

          (i) which is permitted as a food additive or flavouring
              agent according to the Codex Alimentarius or any
              other similar document that may be prescribed; or

          (ii) which is approved by the Authority;

(b) a health product is counterfeit if —

          (i) it is presented in such a manner as to resemble or pass
              off as a registered health product when in fact it is
              not; or

          (ii) it is presented with any false information as to its
               manufacturer or origin;

          (c) a health product is tampered with if it has been modified or
              interfered with in any way, including through the
              introduction or incorporation in it of any substance or
              component that is not referred to in the specifications of its
              manufacturer; and

(d) a health product is unwholesome if —

          (i) it is not in conformity as regards strength, quality or
              purity with the specifications of its manufacturer;

          (ii) it has a strength which differs from, or a standard of
               quality or purity which falls below, that which is
               represented on its label;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
13  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

    (iii) any of its constituent substances or ingredients, as
          stated on its label, has been extracted or omitted from
          it;

    (iv) it contains any prohibited substance or any substance
         in excess of the prescribed permitted concentration;

    (v) it consists in whole or in part of any filthy, putrid or
         decomposed substance;

    (vi) it has been manufactured or stored under unsanitary
         conditions;

    (vii) it has been kept in a package which is composed in
          whole or in part of any substance which may render
          the contents injurious to health;

    (viii) it has been packed with any substance so as to reduce
           the strength, quality or purity or beneficial properties
           that it would have had if it had not been so packed; or

    (ix) it has passed its expected useful life or its expiry date
         as assigned by its manufacturer.

 (3) For the purposes of this Act, a licence or registration is not in
force during the period of its suspension.

Purposes of Act

 3. The purposes of this Act are —

       (a) to provide for the categorisation of health products in
            accordance with their different characteristics and uses;

       (b) to provide the framework for a uniform approach for —

               (i) the registration of health products; and

              (ii) the regulation of the manufacture, import, supply,
                   storage, presentation and advertisement of health
                   products;

       (c) to allow for each category of health products to be
            registered and regulated by reference to its formulation,
            composition, design specification, quality, safety and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  14

          efficacy and within the framework provided by this Act;
          and

(d) to prescribe the standards for health products in relation to
     their formulation, composition, design specification,
     quality, safety, efficacy and presentation.

Act to apply only to health products specified in First Schedule

 4.—(1) Except for and as provided in Part 14, this Act applies only
in relation to the categories of health products that are specified and
described in the first and second columns of the First Schedule to the
extent prescribed in the third column thereof.

 (2) The Minister may, after consulting the Authority, by order in the
Gazette add to, amend or vary the categories and descriptions of
health products in the First Schedule and the extent to which the
provisions of this Act apply to those health products.

 (3) In prescribing the extent to which this Act applies to any
category of health products, the Minister may, in the third column of
the First Schedule, specify the provisions or any part of any provision
of this Act that do or do not apply in relation to such category of
health products.

Act not to apply to supply or use of health products and active
ingredients for veterinary purposes

 5. Except as provided in Part 14, this Act does not apply in relation
to the supply or use by a veterinarian of any health product or active
ingredient for veterinary purposes.

                                    PART 2

                            ADMINISTRATION

Administration of Act

 6. The Authority is responsible for the administration and
enforcement of this Act (except for Part 14) subject to the general
and special directions of the Minister.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
15  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

Appointment of enforcement officers

7.—(1) The Chief Executive may in writing appoint —

    (a) any officer of the Authority; or

    (b) with the approval of the Authority, any other person,

to be an enforcement officer for the purposes of this Act.

 (2) Every enforcement officer, when exercising his or her powers
and carrying out his or her duties under this Act, must comply with
such general or special directions as may, from time to time, be given
to him or her by the Chief Executive.

 (3) Every enforcement officer when exercising any of his or her
powers under this Act must, if not in uniform, declare his or her office
and must, on demand, produce to any person affected by the exercise
of that power such identification card as the Authority may direct to
be carried by the enforcement officer when exercising that power.

Designation of analysts

 8. The Chief Executive may designate any suitably qualified person
as an analyst to carry out any test, evaluation or analysis as may be
necessary for the purpose of the administration and enforcement of
this Act.

Enforcement officers and analysts deemed to be public officers

 9. Every enforcement officer and analyst is deemed to be a public
servant within the meaning of the Penal Code 1871.

Advisory Committees

 10. The Authority may establish one or more Advisory Committees
consisting of any persons that it thinks fit to appoint for the purpose of
advising the Authority on such matters arising from the
administration and enforcement of this Act as are referred to them
by the Authority.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  16

Appeal Advisory Committees

 11. The Minister may establish one or more Appeal Advisory
Committees consisting of such persons as the Minister thinks fit to
appoint for the purpose of —

(a) assisting him or her in the determination of any appeal that
     is brought to him or her under this Act; and

(b) advising him or her on any matter arising from any such
     appeal.

                                    PART 3

   MANUFACTURE AND IMPORT OF HEALTH PRODUCTS

Manufacture of health products

 12.—(1) Except in such cases as may be prescribed, a person must
not manufacture any health product unless —

       (a) the person holds a valid manufacturer’s licence; and

       (b) the manufacture of the health product is carried out in
            accordance with the conditions of the licence.

 (2) A manufacturer’s licence does not authorise the holder of the
licence to supply any health product manufactured by the holder to
any other person unless the health product so manufactured by the
holder is a registered health product.

 (3) A person must not use any premises or facility for the
manufacture of any health product unless the premises or facility is
authorised for such use under the person’s manufacturer’s licence or
the provisions of this Act, or by the Authority.

 (4) Every manufacturer of a health product must ensure that the
manufacture of the health product is carried out in accordance with
such requirements as may be prescribed.

 (5) A person must not manufacture, or procure or arrange for the
manufacture of, any health product which is —

       (a) an adulterated health product;

       (b) a counterfeit health product; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
17  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

    (c) an unwholesome health product.

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (3), (4) or (5) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) in the case of an offence under subsection (1), (3), (4) or
         (5)(c), to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment
         for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both; and

    (b) in the case of an offence under subsection (5)(a) or (b), to a
         fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term
         not exceeding 3 years or to both.

 (7) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (5), it is a
defence for the accused to prove that the accused had taken all such
precautions and exercised all such due diligence as could reasonably
be expected of the accused in the circumstances to ensure that the
health product did not contravene that subsection.

Import of health products

 13.—(1) Except in such cases as may be prescribed, a person must
not import any health product unless —

       (a) the person holds a valid importer’s licence; and

       (b) the import of the health product is carried out in
            accordance with the conditions of the licence.

 (2) An importer’s licence does not authorise the holder of the
licence to supply any health product imported by the holder to any
other person unless the health product so imported by the holder is a
registered health product.

 (3) An importer of any health product must not use any premises or
facility for storing the health product upon its entry into Singapore
unless the premises or facility is authorised for such use under the
importer’s licence held by the importer or the provisions of this Act,
or by the Authority.

 (4) Every importer of a health product must ensure that the import
of the health product is carried out in accordance with such
requirements as may be prescribed.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  18

 (5) A person must not import, or procure or arrange for the import
of, any health product which is —

(a) an adulterated health product;

(b) a counterfeit health product;

          (c) a health product that has been tampered with; or

(d) an unwholesome health product.

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (3), (4) or (5) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) in the case of an offence under subsection (1), (3), (4) or
     (5)(d), to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment
     for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both; and

(b) in the case of an offence under subsection (5)(a), (b) or (c),
     to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

 (7) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (5), it is a
defence for the accused to prove that —

(a) the accused —

          (i) did not know;

          (ii) had no reason to believe; and

          (iii) could not, with reasonable diligence, have
                ascertained,

(a) that the health product was in contravention of that
     subsection; and

(b) the accused had taken all such precautions and exercised
     all such due diligence as could reasonably be expected of
     the accused in the circumstances to ensure that the health
     product did not contravene that subsection.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
19  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

    PART 4

    SUPPLY OF HEALTH PRODUCTS

Wholesaling of health products

 14.—(1) Except in such cases as may be prescribed, a person must
not supply any health product by wholesale unless —

    (a) the person holds a valid wholesaler’s licence; and

    (b) the wholesale supply of the health product is carried out in
         accordance with the conditions of the licence.

 (2) A wholesaler of any health product must not use any premises or
facility for storing the health product prior to distribution unless the
premises or facility is authorised for such use under the wholesaler’s
licence held by the wholesaler or the provisions of this Act, or by the
Authority.

 (3) Every wholesaler of a health product must ensure that the
wholesale supply of the health product is carried out in accordance
with such requirements as may be prescribed.

 (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (2) or (3) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

Prohibition against supply of unregistered health products

 15.—(1) Except in such cases as may be prescribed, a person must
not supply any health product unless the health product is a registered
health product.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

Prohibition against supply of health products that are
adulterated, counterfeits, etc.

 16.—(1) A person must not supply, or procure or arrange for the
supply of, any health product which is —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  20

(a) an adulterated health product;

(b) a counterfeit health product;

          (c) a health product that has been tampered with; or

(d) an unwholesome health product.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) in the case of an offence under subsection (1)(d), to a fine
     not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
     exceeding 2 years or to both; and

(b) in the case of an offence under subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c),
     to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

 (3) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is a
defence for the accused to prove that —

(a) the accused —

          (i) did not know;

          (ii) had no reason to believe; and

          (iii) could not, with reasonable diligence, have
                ascertained,

(a) that the health product was in contravention of that
     subsection; and

(b) the accused had taken all such precautions and exercised
     all such due diligence as could reasonably be expected of
     the accused in the circumstances to ensure that the health
     product did not contravene that subsection.

Supply of health products to be carried out in accordance with
prescribed requirements

 17.—(1) A person must not supply any health product unless the
supply of the health product is carried out in accordance with such
requirements as may be prescribed.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
21  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

 (2) The requirements that may be prescribed for the purposes of
subsection (1) include the following:

    (a) that the supply of the health product should be carried out
         only under, and in accordance with the conditions of, a
         licence issued by the Authority;

    (b) that the supply of the health product should be carried out
         only by certain specified persons;

    (c) that the supply of the health product should be carried out
        only at certain specified premises;

    (d) that the supply of the health product should or should not
         be carried out in any specified manner;

    (e) that the health product should be supplied only to certain
        specified persons and for certain specified purposes;

    (f) that proper records should be kept in relation to any supply
        made of the health product.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

Presentation of health products

 18.—(1) A person must not supply any health product unless the
presentation of the health product complies with such requirements as
may be prescribed.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  22

          PART 5

          ADVERTISEMENT OF HEALTH PRODUCTS

Advertisement of health products

19.—(1) A person must not —

(a) advertise any product or cause any product to be advertised
     as a health product if that product is not a health product; or

(b) advertise any registered health product or cause any
     registered health product to be advertised in such a way
     as to represent the registered health product as being usable
     for any purpose other than that for which it has been
     registered.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1)(a) or (b) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

False or misleading advertisement

 20.—(1) A person must not advertise any health product or cause
any health product to be advertised in a false or misleading way.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), an advertisement of a health
product is taken to be false or misleading if —

       (a) it falsely describes the health product or gives any false
            information concerning the health product; or

       (b) it is likely to create an erroneous impression regarding the
            formulation, composition, design specification, quality,
            safety, efficacy or uses of the health product.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Further requirements for advertisement of health products

 21.—(1) A person must not advertise any health product or cause
any health product to be advertised unless the advertisement complies

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
23  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

with and is undertaken in accordance with such requirements as may
be prescribed.

 (2) The requirements that may be prescribed for the purposes of
subsection (1) include the following:

    (a) that the advertisement should include or exclude any
         specified type of information;

    (b) that the advertisement should not make certain types of
         claims about the health product;

    (c) that the advertisement should be distributed or circulated
        only to certain classes of persons;

    (d) that the advertisement should not appear in certain types of
         publications or media;

    (e) that the advertisement should be submitted to the Authority
        for approval before publication.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Defences

 22. In any proceedings for an offence under section 19, 20 or 21, it
is a defence for the person charged to prove that the person —

       (a) is a person whose business is to publish or arrange for the
            publication of advertisements and that the person received
            the advertisement for publication in the ordinary course of
            business;

       (b) has no financial interest in the supply of the health product
            featured in the advertisement; and

       (c) did not know and had no reason to suspect that the
            advertisement would contravene the provisions of
            section 19, 20 or 21, as the case may be.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  24

Corrective measures in relation to contravening
advertisements

 23.—(1) Where any person has advertised any health product or
caused any health product to be advertised in contravention of
section 19, 20 or 21, the Authority may order that person to do all or
any of the following:

(a) to stop the advertisement with immediate effect;

(b) to take such measures as may be reasonable and necessary
     in the circumstances to remove the advertisements that
     have already been published;

          (c) to publish a corrective advertisement in such manner and
              containing such information as may be specified by the
              Authority.

 (2) The person to whom an order under subsection (1) is directed
must bear the costs and expenses arising from the taking of any
measure that is required of the person under the order.

 (3) If a person to whom an order under subsection (1) is directed
fails to comply with the order —

(a) the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
     on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
     imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
     both; and

(b) the Authority may take such steps as it thinks reasonable
     and necessary to implement the requirements of the order
     and recover any costs and expenses reasonably incurred by
     it in so doing from that person.

 (4) This section shall not affect the liability of any person for an
offence under this Part.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
25  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

    PART 6

    LICENCES

Issue and renewal of licences

 24.—(1) An application for a licence must be made to the Authority
in such form and manner as the Authority may require and must be
accompanied by —

    (a) such particulars, information, documents and samples as
         the Authority may require; and

    (b) if required by the Authority, a statutory declaration by the
         applicant verifying any information contained in or
         relating to the application.

 (2) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1), the
Authority may —

    (a) issue the licence to the applicant if it is satisfied that —

    (i) the applicant is a fit and proper person to be issued
        with a licence or otherwise satisfies such
        requirements as may be prescribed for the issue of
        the licence; and

    (ii) the issue of the licence to the applicant will not be
         contrary to the public interest; or

    (b) refuse to issue the licence applied for.

 (3) Where the Authority refuses to issue a licence to an applicant
under subsection (2)(b), the Authority must, if requested to do so by
the applicant, state in writing the reasons for the refusal.

 (4) Every licence must be issued in such form and manner as the
Authority may determine, and is valid for such period as the
Authority may specify in the licence unless it is sooner suspended or
revoked in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

 (5) The Authority may attach any conditions to a licence that it
thinks necessary, and may from time to time vary the conditions by
written notice given to the licensee.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  26

(6) Any person who, in making an application for a licence —

(a) makes any statement or furnishes any document which the
     person knows to be false or does not believe to be true; or

(b) by the intentional suppression of any material fact,
     furnishes information which is misleading,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (7) Subsections (1) to (6) apply, with the necessary modifications,
to an application for the renewal of a licence.

Variation of licence conditions on application by licensee

 25.—(1) A licensee may apply to the Authority for the variation of
any condition attached to the licensee’s licence.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) must be made to the
Authority in such form and manner as the Authority may require and
must —

       (a) set out the variation required and the reasons for the
            variation; and

       (b) be accompanied by —

               (i) such particulars, information, documents and
                   samples as the Authority may require; and

              (ii) if required by the Authority, a statutory declaration
                   by the licensee verifying any information contained
                   in or relating to the application.

 (3) Where the Authority decides to vary any condition of the
licence to which the application relates, it must amend the licence or
issue a new licence to the licensee as it considers appropriate.

 (4) Any licensee who, in making an application under
subsection (1) —

       (a) makes any statement or furnishes any document which the
            licensee knows to be false or does not believe to be true; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
27  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) by the intentional suppression of any material fact,
         furnishes information which is misleading,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Register of licensees

 26.—(1) The Authority must keep and maintain in such form and
manner as it thinks fit a register of persons who have been issued with
licences under this Act.

 (2) Any person may, during the office hours of the Authority and
upon payment of the prescribed fee, inspect such parts of the register
as the Authority may determine and obtain extracts from the register.

 (3) Any extract from or copy of an entry in the register is prima
facie evidence of the information stated in the register if the extract or
copy is certified under the hand of the Chief Executive, or an officer
of the Authority duly authorised by the Chief Executive, to be a true
extract or copy.

 (4) The Authority may, from time to time, prepare and publish in
such form and manner as it thinks fit a list of all licensees.

Suspension and revocation of licence and cancellation of
approval

 27.—(1) The Authority may suspend or revoke a licence or cancel
any approval granted by it under this Act if the Authority has
reasonable grounds to believe that —

       (a) the issue of the licence or the grant of the approval has been
            obtained by fraud or misrepresentation;

       (b) the licensee or the person to whom the approval has been
            granted has contravened or is contravening —

               (i) any provision of this Act;

              (ii) any condition attached to the licence or approval; or

             (iii) any other prescribed requirement;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  28

          (c) the licensee or the person to whom the approval has been
              granted no longer satisfies any of the prescribed
              requirements based on which the licence was issued or
              the approval was granted to the licensee or person; or

(d) it is in the public interest to do so.

 (2) The Authority may revoke a licence or cancel any approval
granted by it under this Act if the licensee or the person to whom the
approval has been granted applies to the Authority for the revocation
of the licence or the cancellation of the approval, as the case may be.

 (3) Before suspending or revoking a licence or cancelling an
approval under subsection (1), the Authority must —

(a) give to the person to whom the licence has been issued or
     the approval has been granted (hereafter called the person
     concerned) written notice of its intention to do so; and

(b) in the notice, call upon the person concerned to show cause
     within the time specified in the notice as to why the licence
     should not be suspended or revoked or the approval should
     not be cancelled.

(4) If the person concerned —

(a) fails to show cause within the period of time given or such
     extended period of time as the Authority may allow; or

(b) fails to show sufficient cause,

as to why the licence should not be suspended or revoked or as to why
the approval should not be cancelled, the Authority must give written
notice to the person concerned of the date from which the suspension
or revocation of the licence or the cancellation of the approval is to
take effect.

Appeal

 28.—(1) Any person who is aggrieved by —

       (a) the refusal of the Authority to issue or renew a licence
            under section 24 or to grant any approval under this Act;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
29  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) any condition attached by the Authority to a licence under
         section 24; or

    (c) the decision of the Authority to suspend or revoke a licence
        or to cancel an approval under section 27,

may, within the time specified in the notice informing the person of
the refusal, condition, suspension, revocation or cancellation (as the
case may be) appeal in writing to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (2) Before making a decision under subsection (1), the Minister
may refer the matter to an Appeal Advisory Committee and, in
making a decision, the Minister must have regard to any report made
to the Minister by the Appeal Advisory Committee.

(3) Even though an appeal under subsection (1) is pending —

    (a) any condition attached by the Authority to a licence under
         section 24; or

    (b) the decision of the Authority to suspend or revoke a licence
         or to cancel an approval under section 27,

takes effect from the date specified by the Authority, unless the
Minister otherwise directs.

                                    PART 7

             REGISTRATION OF HEALTH PRODUCTS

Health products to be registered according to categories in
First Schedule

 29.—(1) The Authority must register health products under this Act
in accordance with the categories specified in the First Schedule.

 (2) The Authority may —

       (a) subdivide any category of health products into any number
            of classes as it thinks fit; and

       (b) when registering any health product under that category,
            assign that health product into such class within that
            category as it thinks fit.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  30

Registration of health products

 30.—(1) An application for the registration of a health product
must —

(a) be made to the Authority by such person and in such form
     and manner as the Authority may require;

(b) state the category (and, where applicable, the class within
     that category) under which the applicant is seeking to have
     the health product registered; and

          (c) be accompanied by —

          (i) such particulars, information, documents and
              samples as the Authority may require; and

          (ii) if required by the Authority, a statutory declaration
               by the applicant verifying any information contained
               in or relating to the application.

 (2) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1), the
Authority may —

(a) register the health product if it is satisfied that —

          (i) the applicant is a fit and proper person to be granted
              the registration;

          (ii) the registration of the health product will not be
               contrary to the public interest; and

          (iii) the health product complies with such requirements
                as may be prescribed; or

(b) refuse to register the health product.

 (3) The Authority may register a health product under the category
and class stated in the application for its registration if the Authority
is satisfied, after an evaluation of the health product under section 33,
that the health product is suitable to be so registered.

 (4) If the Authority finds that a health product is not suitable for
registration under the category or class stated in the application, it
may —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
31  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

    (a) recommend to the applicant that the health product be
         registered under a more suitable category or class as
         determined by the Authority; or

    (b) refuse to register the health product.

 (5) If the applicant accepts the recommendation of the Authority
under subsection (4)(a), the Authority must, subject to the payment of
the appropriate prescribed fee by the applicant, register the health
product under the category or class recommended by it.

 (6) If the applicant does not wish to register the health product
under the category or class recommended by the Authority under
subsection (4)(a), the applicant may —

    (a) within such time as the Authority may allow, submit to the
         Authority such additional information, documents and
         samples as the Authority may require in support of the
         application to have the health product registered under the
         category or class stated in the application; or

    (b) withdraw the application.

 (7) Upon considering the additional information, documents and
samples submitted by the applicant under subsection (6)(a), the
Authority may do any of the following:

    (a) register the health product under the category and class
         stated in the application if it is satisfied that it is appropriate
         to do so;

    (b) subject to the payment of the appropriate prescribed fee by
         the applicant, register the health product under the category
         or class recommended by the Authority under
         subsection (4)(a) if the applicant is agreeable to it;

    (c) refuse to register the health product.

 (8) Upon registering a health product under this Act, the Authority
must assign a registration number to the health product and must enter
in the Register of Health Products the prescribed information
pertaining to that health product.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  32

 (9) Where the Authority refuses to register a health product under
subsection (2)(b), (4)(b) or (7)(c), the Authority must, if requested to
do so by the applicant, state in writing the reasons for the refusal.

 (10) Any person who, in making an application for the registration
of a health product —

(a) makes any statement or furnishes any document which the
     person knows to be false or does not believe to be true; or

(b) by the intentional suppression of any material fact,
     furnishes information which is misleading,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Duration of registration

 31. The registration of a health product under this Act remains in
force for so long as —

       (a) the registrant of the health product continues to pay to the
            Authority within the prescribed time, the prescribed
            retention fee for the retention of the registration of the
            health product in the Register of Health Products; and

       (b) the registration is not otherwise suspended or cancelled by
            the Authority under section 37(1).

Conditions of registration

 32. The Authority may attach any conditions to the registration of a
health product as it thinks necessary, and may from time to time vary
the conditions by giving written notice to the registrant of the health
product.

Evaluation of health products

 33.—(1) In order to ascertain that a health product is suitable for
registration under this Act or for registration under any particular
category or class, the Authority may —

       (a) subject samples of the health product to an evaluation by
            an analyst;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
33  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) require the applicant for the registration of the health
         product to send samples of the health product for
         evaluation by an analyst and then submit the evaluation
         report to the Authority; or

    (c) consider the evaluation report of any body or organisation,
        whether in Singapore or elsewhere, that has evaluated the
        health product.

 (2) The evaluation of a health product must include such tests and
examination of the health product as the Authority thinks necessary to
determine the following matters:

    (a) whether the quality, safety or efficacy of the health product
         for the purposes for which it is to be used has been
         satisfactorily established;

    (b) whether the presentation of the health product is
         appropriate, given its formulation, composition or design
         specification and intended purpose;

    (c) whether the health product complies with such
        requirements as may have been prescribed in relation to it;

    (d) any other matters relating to the health product as the
         Authority thinks relevant.

 (3) The requirements that may be prescribed for the purposes of
subsection (2)(c) include the following:

    (a) that the health product should not have in its
         composition —

    (i) any prohibited substance; or

    (ii) any particular substance in excess of the prescribed
         permitted concentration;

    (b) that the manufacture of the health product —

    (i) if carried out in Singapore, should comply with such
        requirements as may be prescribed; and

    (ii) if carried out elsewhere, should comply with such
         standards that are acceptable to the Authority.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  34

 (4) In determining whether a health product complies with the
standards mentioned in subsection (3)(b)(ii), the Authority may
consider such evidence as it thinks sufficient from a relevant overseas
authority establishing that the manufacture of the health product is of
the acceptable standard.

 (5) The costs of and incidental to the evaluation of a health product
must be borne by the applicant for the registration of the health
product.

Register of Health Products

 34.—(1) The Authority must keep and maintain in such form and
manner as it thinks fit a Register of Health Products for the purpose of
compiling information in relation to all registered health products.

 (2) Any person may, during the office hours of the Authority and
upon payment of the prescribed fee, inspect such parts of the Register
of Health Products as the Authority may determine and obtain
extracts from that Register.

 (3) Any extract from or copy of an entry in the Register of Health
Products is prima facie evidence of the information stated in the entry
if the extract or copy is certified under the hand of the Chief
Executive, or an officer of the Authority duly authorised by the Chief
Executive, to be a true extract or copy.

 (4) The Authority may, from time to time, prepare and publish in
such form and manner as it thinks fit a list of all registered health
products.

Re‑categorisation or re‑classification of health products on
application of registrant

 35.—(1) The Authority may, upon the application of the registrant
of a registered health product —

       (a) transfer the health product from the category or class under
            which it has been registered to another category or class;
            and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
35  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) cause such amendments to be made in the Register of
         Health Products as may be necessitated by the
         re‑categorisation or re‑classification of that health product.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) for the re‑categorisation or
re‑classification of a registered health product must —

    (a) be made to the Authority in such form and manner as the
         Authority may require; and

    (b) be accompanied by —

    (i) such particulars, information, documents and
        samples as the Authority may require; and

    (ii) if required by the Authority, a statutory declaration
         by the applicant verifying any information contained
         in or relating to the application.

 (3) Upon the re‑categorisation or re‑classification of a registered
health product under this section, the registrant of the health product
must take such steps as may be specified by the Authority to secure
the necessary changes to the presentation and advertisement of the
health product so as to bring them in conformity with the new
category or class of the health product.

 (4) If the registrant of the health product fails to comply with
subsection (3), the registrant shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (5) Any person who, in making an application under subsection (1)
for the re‑categorisation or re‑classification of a registered health
product —

    (a) makes any statement or furnishes any document which the
         person knows to be false or does not believe to be true; or

    (b) by the intentional suppression of any material fact,
         furnishes information which is misleading,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.         Health Products Act 2007                           36

Power to re‑categorise or re‑classify health products in absence
of application by registrant

36.—(1) Where —

(a) the Authority is satisfied upon information received by it in
     respect of a registered health product that the health
     product should be transferred from the category or class
     under which it has been registered to another category or
     class; but

(b) the registrant of the health product has not made an
     application under section 35 for the health product to be so
     re‑categorised or re‑classified,

the Authority may, subject to subsection (2), of its own volition
re‑categorise or re‑classify the health product and cause such
amendments to be made in the Register of Health Products as may
be necessitated by the re-categorisation or re‑classification of that
health product.

 (2) Before re‑categorising or re‑classifying a registered health
product under subsection (1), the Authority must —

(a) give to the registrant of the health product written notice of
     its intention to do so; and

(b) in the notice, call upon the registrant, if the registrant
     wishes, to show cause within the time specified in the
     notice as to why the health product should not be
     re‑categorised or re‑classified as intended by the Authority.

(3) If the registrant of the health product —

(a) is agreeable to the re‑categorisation or re‑classification of
     the health product; or

(b) fails to show cause within the period of time given or such
     extended period of time as the Authority may allow, or fails
     to show sufficient cause as to why the health product
     should not be re‑categorised or re‑classified as intended by
     the Authority,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
37  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

the Authority must give written notice to the registrant of the health
product of the date from which the re‑categorisation or
re‑classification of the health product is to take effect.

 (4) The Authority may also in the notice given under subsection (3)
require the registrant of the health product to take such steps as may
be specified by the Authority to secure the necessary changes to the
presentation and advertisement of the health product so as to bring
them in conformity with the new category or class of the health
product.

 (5) The registrant of a health product who fails to comply with any
of the requirements attached under subsection (4) to a notice given to
the registrant under subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (6) Where the registrant of a health product does not wish to have
the health product re‑categorised or re‑classified as intended by the
Authority under this section, the registrant may apply to the Authority
to cancel the registration of the health product.

Suspension and cancellation of registration

 37.—(1) The Authority may suspend or cancel the registration of a
health product if the Authority has reasonable grounds to believe
that —

       (a) the registration has been obtained by fraud or
            misrepresentation;

       (b) the registrant of the health product has contravened or is
            contravening —

               (i) any provision of this Act;

              (ii) any condition attached to the registration; or

             (iii) any other prescribed requirement;

       (c) the formulation, composition, design specification, quality,
            safety or presentation of the health product has changed so
            as to render it unsuitable to continue to be registered;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  38

(d) the health product no longer complies with a prescribed
     requirement; or

          (e) it is in the public interest to do so.

 (2) The Authority may cancel the registration of a health product if
the registrant of the health product fails to pay the prescribed
retention fee mentioned in section 31(a) within the prescribed time.

 (3) The Authority may, upon the application of the registrant of a
health product, cancel the registration of the health product.

 (4) Before suspending or cancelling the registration of any health
product under subsection (1) or (2), the Authority must —

(a) give to the registrant of the health product written notice of
     its intention to do so; and

(b) in such notice, call upon the registrant of the health product
     to show cause within the time specified in the notice as to
     why the registration of the health product should not be
     suspended or cancelled.

(5) If the registrant of the health product —

(a) fails to show cause within the period of time given or such
     extended period of time as the Authority may allow; or

(b) fails to show sufficient cause,

as to why the registration of the health product should not be
suspended or cancelled, the Authority must give written notice to the
registrant of the health product of the date from which the suspension
or cancellation of the registration of the health product is to take
effect.

Appeal

 38.—(1) Any person who is aggrieved by —

       (a) the refusal of the Authority to register a health product
            under section 30;

       (b) any condition attached by the Authority to the registration
            of a health product under section 32;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
39  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

    (c) the decision of the Authority to re-categorise or re‑classify
        a health product under section 36; or

    (d) the decision of the Authority to suspend or cancel the
         registration of a health product under section 37,

may, within the time specified in the notice informing the person of
the refusal, suspension, revocation or cancellation (as the case may
be) appeal in writing to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (2) Before making a decision under subsection (1), the Minister
may refer the matter to an Appeal Advisory Committee and, in
making a decision, the Minister must have regard to any report made
to the Minister by the Appeal Advisory Committee.

(3) Even though an appeal under subsection (1) is pending —

    (a) any condition attached by the Authority to the registration
         of a health product under section 32;

    (b) the decision of the Authority to re-categorise or re‑classify
         a health product under section 36; or

    (c) the decision of the Authority to suspend or cancel the
        registration of a health product under section 37,

takes effect from the date specified by the Authority, unless the
Minister otherwise directs.

                                    PART 8

    DUTIES OF MANUFACTURERS, IMPORTERS, ETC., OF
                           HEALTH PRODUCTS

Application of this Part

 39. The duties imposed by this Part on manufacturers, importers,
suppliers and registrants of health products apply in addition to any
other duty imposed on them under Part 3, 4 or 7, as the case may be.

Keeping of records

 40.—(1) The Authority may, by written notice, require the
manufacturer, importer, supplier or registrant of a health product —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  40

(a) to keep such records as the Authority may determine in
     relation to the manufacture, import, supply, use or
     administration (as the case may be) of the health
     product; and

(b) to produce such records for inspection by the Authority or
     an enforcement officer as and when required by the
     Authority or enforcement officer.

 (2) The records mentioned in subsection (1) must be kept in such
form and manner and for such period as the Authority may stipulate,
and must contain such information in relation to the manufacture,
import, supply, use or administration (as the case may be) of the
health product as the Authority may require.

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with any requirement under
subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (4) Any person who, in compliance or purported compliance with
subsection (1)(b), furnishes the Authority or an enforcement officer
with any record which the person knows is false or misleading, shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Furnishing of information or document regarding health
product

 41.—(1) The Authority may, by written notice, require the
manufacturer, importer, supplier or registrant of a health product to
furnish to the Authority, within such time and for such period as may
be specified in such notice, any information or document which such
person has in the person’s possession or which the person is in a
position to obtain regarding such health product.

 (2) Any person who fails to comply with a notice given to the
person by the Authority under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
41  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

 (3) Any person who, in compliance or purported compliance with a
notice given to the person by the Authority under subsection (1),
furnishes the Authority with any information or document which the
person knows is false or misleading, shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Reporting of defects and adverse effects to Authority

 42.—(1) Where the manufacturer, importer, supplier or registrant
of a health product becomes aware of —

       (a) any defect in the health product; or

       (b) any adverse effect that has arisen or can arise from the use
            of the health product,

it is the duty of such person to inform the Authority within the
prescribed time of the defect or adverse effect.

 (2) Where the Authority receives any information under
subsection (1) concerning any defect in, or adverse effect of, a
health product or becomes aware of any such defect or adverse effect
through any other means, it may take any one or more of the
following actions:

       (a) by written notice require the manufacturer, importer,
            supplier or registrant of the health product to investigate
            into the defect or adverse effect and make a report of the
            findings and recommendations to the Authority;

       (b) by written notice require the manufacturer, importer,
            supplier or registrant of the health product to issue or
            cause to be issued to such persons as the Authority may
            specify or to the general public a statement informing them
            of the defect or adverse effect and the measures that should
            be taken for addressing the defect or adverse effect;

       (c) by written notice require the manufacturer, importer,
            supplier or registrant of the health product to recall the
            health product and take such measures as the Authority
            may specify to secure the immediate stoppage of the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  42

          manufacture, import, supply, use or administration (as the
          case may be) of the health product;

(d) by written notice prohibit any person from using or
     administering the health product and require the person
     to take such measures as the Authority may specify to
     address any adverse effect that may have arisen from any
     previous use or administration of the health product;

          (e) by written notice require the manufacturer, importer,
              supplier or registrant of the health product to take any
              other measures as the Authority thinks necessary in the
              circumstances.

 (3) The Authority may also in any written notice given under
subsection (2) require the person to whom the notice has been given
to submit to the Authority in such form and manner and within such
time and for such period specified by the Authority, a report
containing information on —

(a) the measures that the person has taken under the notice;

(b) the results of the measures so taken; and

          (c) any other matter as the Authority thinks necessary or
              relevant in the circumstances.

 (4) A statement under subsection (2)(b) must be issued in such form
and manner as the Authority may require, including —

(a) by publication in any one or more daily newspapers
     circulating in Singapore; or

(b) by dissemination in any alternative medium,

within the time and for the period as the Authority may determine.

(5) Any person who —

(a) fails to comply with subsection (1) or a notice given to the
     person by the Authority under subsection (2) or (3); or

(b) in compliance or purported compliance with subsection (1)
     or a notice given to the person by the Authority under
     subsection (2) or (3), furnishes the Authority with any

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
43  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

    information or document which the person knows is false
    or misleading,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (6) For the purposes of this section, a health product has a defect
if —

    (a) it has or has possibly been adulterated or tampered with;

    (b) it is or is possibly a counterfeit or an unwholesome health
         product;

    (c) it is or is possibly of inadequate quality or unsafe or
        inefficacious for its intended purpose; or

    (d) it fails or could possibly fail to satisfy such other standards
         or requirements as may be prescribed.

Verification of quality, safety and efficacy of health product

 43.—(1) Where the Authority has reasonable grounds to believe
that a health product may no longer be of adequate quality, safe or
efficacious when used for the purpose in respect of which it has been
registered under this Act, the Authority may, by written notice,
require the manufacturer, importer, supplier or registrant of the health
product to take such measures as the Authority may specify to verify
the quality, safety or efficacy (as the case may be) of the health
product.

 (2) The measures that the Authority may require under
subsection (1) include —

       (a) subjecting the health product to an evaluation in
            accordance with section 33; and

       (b) furnishing the Authority with such evidence of the quality,
            safety or efficacy of the health product as the Authority
            may require.

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with a notice given to the
person by the Authority under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  44

$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

 (4) Any person who, in compliance or purported compliance with a
notice given to the person by the Authority under subsection (1),
furnishes the Authority with any information or document which the
person knows is false or misleading, shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Notification to Authority concerning recall of health product

 44.—(1) Where the manufacturer, importer, supplier or registrant
of a health product recalls or intends to recall the health product, such
person must, within the prescribed time, notify the Authority of the
recall or intended recall and the reasons for it.

 (2) On being notified of the recall or intended recall of a health
product under subsection (1), the Authority may, by written notice,
require the manufacturer, importer, supplier or registrant of the health
product to issue or cause to be issued to such persons as the Authority
may specify or to the general public a statement informing them of
the recall of the health product and any other matter as the Authority
considers necessary.

 (3) Any person who —

       (a) fails to comply with subsection (1) or a notice given to the
            person by the Authority under subsection (2); or

       (b) in compliance or purported compliance with
            subsection (1), furnishes the Authority with any
            information or document which the person knows is
            false or misleading,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Additional duties under regulations

 45. The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, by
regulations provide for such additional duties as it thinks fit to be

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
45  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

imposed on manufacturers, importers, suppliers and registrants of
health products.

                                    PART 9

   REGULATION OF DEALINGS IN ACTIVE INGREDIENTS

Active ingredients to which this Part applies

 46. This Part applies to such active ingredients as may be
prescribed.

Regulation of manufacture, import, supply, etc., of active
ingredients

 47.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations to control and regulate the manufacture, import,
supply, transport, possession and storage of active ingredients.

 (2) Regulations made under subsection (1) may —

       (a) prohibit the manufacture, import, supply, transport,
            possession or storage of any active ingredient except
            under and in accordance with the conditions of a licence
            issued by the Authority; and

       (b) prescribe the requirements to be complied with by any
            person who manufactures, imports, supplies, transports,
            possesses or stores any active ingredient.

 (3) The requirements that may be prescribed for the purposes of
subsection (2)(b) include the following:

       (a) that the manufacture, import, supply, transport or storage
            of any active ingredient should be carried out only by
            certain specified persons;

       (b) that the manufacture, supply or storage of any active
            ingredient should be carried out only at certain specified
            premises;

       (c) that the manufacture, import, supply, transport or storage
            of any active ingredient should or should not be carried out
            in any specified manner;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  46

(d) that the packaging of any active ingredient should comply
     with certain standards or specifications;

          (e) that the labels on the packaging of any active ingredient
              should conform to certain specifications and contain
              certain specified information;

          (f) that the supply of any active ingredient should only be
              made to certain specified persons and for certain specified
              purposes;

(g) that proper records should be kept in relation to any supply
     made of any active ingredient.

 (4) Any person who contravenes any regulation made under this
section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (5) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (4), if any
person is proved to have kept or had in the person’s possession or
under the person’s control any active ingredient, the person is
presumed to have done so knowingly unless the contrary is proved by
that person.

                                   PART 10

                              ENFORCEMENT

Non-compliant health products and active ingredients

 48. For the purposes of this Part —

       (a) a health product is considered as being non‑compliant if —

               (i) it has been manufactured, imported or supplied in
                   contravention of this Act;

              (ii) it is an adulterated health product, a counterfeit
                   health product, a health product that has been
                   tampered with or an unwholesome health product; or

             (iii) it does not comply with such requirements as may be
                   prescribed in relation to it; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
47  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) an active ingredient is considered as being non‑compliant
         if —

    (i) it has been manufactured, imported or supplied in
        contravention of this Act; or

    (ii) it does not comply with such requirements as may be
         prescribed in relation to it.

Powers of enforcement

 49.—(1) For the purpose of the administration and enforcement of
this Act, an enforcement officer may —

       (a) at any time and without warrant enter, inspect and search
            any premises that are being used, or that the enforcement
            officer has reason to suspect are being used, for or in
            connection with any purpose that is in contravention of this
            Act;

       (b) at any time and without warrant stop, board, inspect and
            search any conveyance that is being used, or that the
            enforcement officer has reason to suspect is being used, for
            or in connection with any purpose that is in contravention
            of this Act;

       (c) in accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed
            and without payment, take for testing, examination or
            analysis a sample of any health product or active ingredient
            that is found pursuant to an inspection or a search under
            paragraph (a) or (b);

       (d) seize —

               (i) any health product or active ingredient, wherever
                   found, if the enforcement officer knows or has reason
                   to suspect that the health product or active ingredient
                   is a non-compliant health product or active
                   ingredient; or

              (ii) any other substance or article which the enforcement
                   officer has reasonable cause to believe to be a
                   substance or an article in relation to which, or by

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  48

          means of which, an offence under this Act is being or
          has been committed;

          (e) by written notice require any person to attend at a
              reasonable time and at a place specified by the
              enforcement officer to answer any question or to provide
              a signed statement in writing concerning any suspected
              contravention of this Act;

          (f) arrest, without warrant, any person whom the enforcement
              officer has reason to believe has committed any offence
              under this Act if —

          (i) the name and address of that person are unknown;

          (ii) the person refuses to furnish his or her name or
               address;

          (iii) the person furnishes an address out of Singapore;

          (iv) the enforcement officer has reasonable grounds for
               believing that the person has furnished a false name
               or address; or

          (v) the enforcement officer has reasonable grounds for
               believing that the person is likely to abscond;

(g) require any person —

          (i) to furnish any information within the person’s
              knowledge; or

          (ii) to produce for inspection any document or record
               within the person’s possession,

(g) that the enforcement officer believes on reasonable
     grounds to be connected with any suspected
     contravention of this Act or to be otherwise relevant to
     the administration or enforcement of this Act;

(h) retain the original copy of any document or record that the
     enforcement officer believes on reasonable grounds to be
     connected with any suspected contravention of this Act or
     to be otherwise relevant to the administration or
     enforcement of this Act, or make or cause to be made,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
49  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

    without payment, copies of or extracts from such document
    or record; and

    (i) by written notice require any person having in the person’s
        possession any health product or active ingredient that is
        intended for supply to submit, at the person’s own expense,
        a sample of such health product or active ingredient to an
        analyst for analysis.

 (2) In exercising the power under subsection (1)(a) or (b), an
enforcement officer may —

    (a) require the owner or occupier of any premises or
         conveyance being inspected to provide all reasonable
         assistance to the enforcement officer for the purpose of the
         inspection; and

    (b) if the circumstances so warrant, with such assistance as he
         or she thinks necessary, break open any door, window,
         lock, fastener, hold, compartment, box, container,
         receptacle or any other thing,

and any person who fails to comply with any requirement of an
enforcement officer under paragraph (a) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (3) The Authority may, by written notice, require any person who
has supplied any health product or active ingredient to recall, within
the period specified in the notice, all such health products or active
ingredients if the Authority knows or has reason to believe that the
health product or active ingredient is a non-compliant health product
or active ingredient.

 (4) The Authority may, by written notice, require any person who
manufactures, imports or supplies any health product or active
ingredient to cease (whether immediately or within such time as the
Authority may specify) the manufacture, import or supply of such
health product or active ingredient if —

    (a) the Authority knows or has reason to believe that such
         health product or active ingredient is a non-compliant
         health product or active ingredient; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  50

(b) a sample of the health product or active ingredient has been
     taken or obtained under subsection (1)(c) or (i) and sent for
     analysis and pending the result of the analysis, the
     Authority is of the opinion that it is necessary to prevent
     any more of such health product or active ingredient from
     further being manufactured, imported or supplied.

(5) Where any item has been seized under subsection (1)(d) —

(a) the enforcement officer who seized the item must
     immediately give written notice of the seizure to the
     person from whom the item was seized, if the name and
     address of that person are known;

(b) any person claiming the item seized may within 48 hours
     after the seizure complain of the seizure to a Magistrate,
     and the complaint may be heard and determined by the
     Magistrate who may —

          (i) confirm the seizure wholly or in part;

          (ii) disallow the seizure wholly or in part;

          (iii) order that the item seized be restored to its owner,
                subject to such condition which the Magistrate may
                think fit to impose to ensure that the item is preserved
                for any purpose for which it may subsequently be
                required; or

          (iv) order payment to be made to the owner of the item
               seized of an amount that the Magistrate considers
               will compensate the owner for any loss or
               depreciation resulting from the seizure;

          (c) in the absence of any claim under paragraph (b) or pending
              the determination of any such claim, the item may be kept
              or stored in the premises or conveyance where it was
              seized or may, at the direction of the enforcement officer,
              be removed to any other place to be kept or stored there;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
51  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

    (d) the enforcement officer may —

    (i) mark, seal or label the item in such manner as he or
        she thinks fit for the purpose of indicating that the
        item is under detention; and

    (ii) lock or seal the premises or conveyance in which the
         item is being detained; and

    (e) any person who, without the authority of the enforcement
        officer —

    (i) interferes, tampers with, removes, distributes, sells
        or otherwise disposes of the item;

    (ii) alters, counterfeits, defaces, destroys, erases or
         removes any mark, seal or label placed by the
         enforcement officer on the item under
         paragraph (d)(i); or

    (iii) opens, breaks or otherwise tampers with the lock or
          seal placed by the enforcement officer on any
          premises or conveyance or part thereof under
          paragraph (d)(ii),

    (e) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
        conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
        imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
        both.

 (6) A person arrested under subsection (1)(f) must not be detained
longer than is necessary for bringing him or her before a court unless
the order of a court for his or her detention is obtained.

 (7) For the purposes of subsection (1)(g), where any document or
record required by an enforcement officer is kept in electronic form,
then —

    (a) the power of the enforcement officer to require the
         document or record to be produced for inspection
         includes the power to require a copy of the document or
         record to be made available for inspection in legible form
         (and subsection (1)(h) applies accordingly in relation to
         any copy so made available); and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  52

(b) the power of the enforcement officer to inspect such
     document or record includes the power to require any
     person on the premises in question to give the enforcement
     officer such assistance as the enforcement officer may
     reasonably require to enable him or her to inspect and
     make copies of the document or record in legible form or to
     make records of the information contained in the document
     or record.

 (8) Any copy of or extract from any document or record made under
subsection (1)(h) and certified as such by the enforcement officer is
admissible as evidence in any proceedings under this Act.

 (9) Any person who, when required by an enforcement officer
under subsection (1)(g) to furnish any information or produce any
document or record, without reasonable excuse refuses or fails to
furnish the information or to produce the document or record within
the time allowed by the enforcement officer shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

(10) Any person who, when required by an enforcement officer —

(a) under subsection (1)(e) to answer any question or to
     provide any signed statement in writing; or

(b) under subsection (1)(g) to furnish any information or
     produce any document or record,

in compliance or purported compliance with such requirement,
furnishes the enforcement officer with any information, document or
record which the person knows is false or misleading, shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

 (11) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with any written notice given to the person —

(a) by an enforcement officer under subsection (1)(e) or (i); or

(b) by the Authority under subsection (3) or (4),

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
53  Health Products Act 2007  2020 Ed.

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Unlawful alteration, destruction, etc., of documents

 50. Any person who alters, suppresses, conceals or destroys any
document which the person is or is liable to be required, by or under
this Act, to produce to an enforcement officer shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Obstructing officers in execution of their duties

 51. Any person who obstructs, hinders or impedes any enforcement
officer or any other person acting under the direction of the Authority
or the Chief Executive in the performance or execution of his or her
duty or anything which he or she is authorised, empowered or
required to do under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                    PART 11

                          PRESUMPTIONS AND
                OTHER EVIDENTIARY PROVISIONS
          FOR PURPOSES OF ENFORCEMENT OF ACT

Presumption as to liability of importers and manufacturers

 52. Where any health product or active ingredient is supplied in a
package, any person who appears from any statement thereon or
attached thereto to have imported or manufactured that health product
or active ingredient is presumed, unless the contrary is proved, to
have so imported or manufactured the health product or active
ingredient.

Presumption as to identity of advertiser

 53. Where any health product is advertised, the person whose name
or particulars appear in the advertisement is presumed, unless the

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  54

contrary is proved, to be the person who has advertised the health
product.

Presumption as to purpose for which health product is
manufactured, imported or supplied

 54.—(1) Any person who manufactures, imports or supplies any
health product is presumed, unless the contrary is proved, to have
manufactured, imported or supplied the health product for use by
humans.

 (2) Any health product that is found —

       (a) on any premises that are used for the manufacture, storage
            or supply of health products;

       (b) in any conveyance that is used for the transportation of
            health products; or

       (c) in any automatic vending machine,

is presumed, unless the contrary is proved, to be intended for use by
humans.

Presumption as to similarity in properties between health
products, etc., found and sample taken therefrom

 55. Any quantity of a health product or an active ingredient found in
any premises or on any conveyance at the time when a sample of it is
taken pursuant to the provisions of this Act is presumed, unless the
contrary is proved, to possess the same properties as the sample.

Presumption of person’s intention to supply health product
found in person’s possession

 56. Where any person is found to be keeping or to be in possession
of any health product in circumstances in which it would be
reasonable to suspect that the person intends to supply the health
product, the person is presumed, unless the contrary is proved, to
have the health product in the person’s possession for the purpose of
supply.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
55                   Health Products Act 2007                 2020 Ed.

Evidence of analyst

 57.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the certificate of an analyst
stating that he or she has tested, examined or analysed any health
product, active ingredient or other substance or thing and stating the
result of his or her test, examination or analysis is admissible in
evidence in any proceedings for an offence under this Act as prima
facie evidence of the facts stated in the certificate and of the
correctness of the result of the test, examination or analysis.

 (2) The certificate of an analyst mentioned in subsection (1) must
not be received in evidence pursuant to that subsection unless the
person charged has been given a copy of the certificate together with
reasonable notice of the intention of the prosecution to produce the
certificate as evidence in the proceedings.

 (3) Where the certificate of an analyst is admitted in evidence under
subsection (1), the person charged may require the analyst to be
called as a witness for the prosecution and the analyst may be
cross‑examined as if he or she had given evidence of the matters
stated in the certificate.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, a document purporting to be a
certificate mentioned in subsection (1) on its production by the
prosecution is deemed, unless the contrary is proved, to be such a
certificate.

                                   PART 12

                   OFFENCES AND PROSECUTION

Jurisdiction of court

 58. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment in
respect of the offence.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 59.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  56

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     an officer; or

(b) to be attributable to any neglect on an officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with his or her functions of management as if
he or she were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     a partner; or

(b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of a partner,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
     its governing body; or

(b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such an
     officer or member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(5) In this section —

“body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership which
   has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Limited
   Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
57               Health Products Act 2007                     2020 Ed.

    “officer” —

    (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
         partner, member of the committee of management,
         chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the body corporate and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity; or

    (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
         than a partnership), means the president, the
         secretary, or any member of the committee of the
         unincorporated association, or any person holding a
         position analogous to that of president, secretary or
         member of a committee and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity;

    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (6) The Minister may make regulations to provide for the
application of any provision of this section, with such
modifications as the Minister considers appropriate, to any body
corporate or unincorporated association formed or recognised under
the law of a territory outside Singapore.

Enhanced penalty for corporations

 60. Where a body corporate is convicted of an offence under this
Act, the penalty that the court may impose shall be a fine not
exceeding 2 times the maximum amount that the court could, but for
this section, impose as a fine for that offence.

Liability for offences by agents or employees

 61. Where an offence under this Act is committed by any person
acting as an agent or employee of another person, or being otherwise
subject to the supervision or instruction of another person for the
purposes of any employment in the course of which the offence was
committed, that other person shall, without prejudice to the liability
of the firstmentioned person, be liable under this Act in the same
manner and to the same extent as if he or she had personally
committed the offence if it is proved that the act which constituted the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  58

offence was committed with his or her consent or connivance or that
it was attributable to any neglect on his or her part.

Forfeiture

 62.—(1) The court before which any person is tried for an offence
under this Act may make an order for the forfeiture of any item which
has been seized under the provisions of this Act if the court is satisfied
that —

       (a) an offence under this Act has been committed; and

       (b) the item seized was the subject matter, or was used in the
            commission, of the offence.

 (2) Where no party raises the question of forfeiture under
subsection (1), the court may consider the question on its own
motion.

 (3) The court may make an order under subsection (1) for the
forfeiture of any item which has been seized under the provisions of
this Act even though no person has been convicted of an offence.

 (4) If the court, having regard to the circumstances of the case, does
not think it fit to order the forfeiture of any item which has been
seized under the provisions of this Act, the court is to order that the
item be released to its owner or the person entitled to it.

 (5) If —

       (a) no prosecution is instituted with regard to any item which
            has been seized under the provisions of this Act; and

       (b) no claim is made for the item under section 49(5)(b),

the item to which the notice relates is deemed to be forfeited.

 (6) Where the owner of any item seized under the provisions of this
Act consents to its disposal, the item is then deemed to be forfeited.

 (7) Any item forfeited or deemed to be forfeited under this section
must be delivered to the Authority or an officer of the Authority and
must be disposed of in such manner as the Chief Executive thinks fit.

 (8) The costs of the disposal of any item under subsection (7) must
be borne by the owner of that item.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
59  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

Recovery of fees and other expenses incidental to prosecution

 63.—(1) When any person is convicted of an offence under this
Act, the court may order that person to pay the following costs and
expenses:

    (a) all expenses incidental to the analysis of any health product
         or active ingredient in respect of which the conviction is
         obtained;

    (b) the cost of the purchase of any sample of the health product
         or active ingredient for analysis; and

    (c) any other reasonable expenses incurred by the prosecution.

 (2) If the amount of the costs and expenses is not paid by the person
liable to pay those costs and expenses within 14 days after demand,
that amount may be reported to a Magistrate’s Court and recovered in
the same manner as if it were a fine imposed by a Magistrate’s Court.

Non-disclosure of information

 64.—(1) No prosecutor or witness in any prosecution of an offence
under this Act may be compelled to disclose the fact that he or she
received any information or the nature of the information or the name
of any person who gave the information.

 (2) No officer appearing as a prosecutor or witness in connection
with any offence under this Act may be compelled to produce any
confidential report or document made or received by him or her in his
or her official capacity or to make any statement in relation to the
report or document.

Composition of offences

 65.—(1) The Chief Executive or any officer of the Authority
authorised in writing in that behalf by the Chief Executive may
compound any offence under this Act that is prescribed as a
compoundable offence by collecting from a person reasonably
suspected of having committed the offence a sum not exceeding
the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.     Health Products Act 2007                               60

(b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

                                   PART 13

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Protection of confidential information

 66.—(1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (2), a person
who is or has been involved in the administration or enforcement of
this Act must not disclose any information relating to any health
product that the person knows or ought reasonably to know to be
confidential information.

 (2) Nothing in subsection (1) prevents any person from disclosing
any information within the person’s knowledge concerning any
health product where the disclosure is made —

       (a) with the permission of the person from whom the
            information was obtained;

       (b) for the purpose of the administration or enforcement of this
            Act;

       (c) for the purpose of assisting any public officer or officer of
            any other statutory board in the investigation or
            prosecution of any offence under any written law;

       (d) for any other prescribed purpose; or

       (e) in compliance with the requirement of any court or the
            provisions of any written law.

 (3) For the purpose of this section, the reference to a person
disclosing or making use of any information includes that person
permitting any other person to have any access to any record,
document or other thing which is in that person’s possession or under

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
61  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

that person’s control by virtue of that person being or having been
involved in the administration or enforcement of this Act.

 (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Service of documents

 67.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by or under this
Act to be served on a person may be served as described in this
section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on an individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents
            generally, or specifically for the document, or (if no
            address is so specified) the individual’s residential address
            or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;
            or

       (e) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a partnership (other than a limited liability partnership)
may be served —

       (a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer, or an
            authorised representative, of the partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the partnership’s business address; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  62

          (c) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
              address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a body corporate (including a limited liability partnership)
or an unincorporated association may be served —

(a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
     body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
     limited liability partnership’s manager;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the registered office or principal office in Singapore of
     the body corporate or unincorporated association; or

          (c) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
              corporate or unincorporated association.

(5) Service of a document under this section takes effect —

(a) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
     after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
     undelivered); or

(b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
     becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
     it is sent.

 (6) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email may be effected only with the person’s prior written consent to
service in that way.

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

(8) In this section —

“authorised representative”, in relation to a partnership (other
   than a limited liability partnership), means any person
   authorised to accept service of documents on behalf of the
   partnership;

“business address” means —

          (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
               last known place of business in Singapore; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
63  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
         liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
         last known place of business in Singapore;

    “document” includes an order or a notice permitted or required
       by or under this Act to be served;

    “last email address” means the last email address given by the
       addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
       document as the email address for the service of documents
       under this Act;

    “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
       place of residence in Singapore.

    [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

Form and authentication of notices, orders and other
documents

 68.—(1) All notices, orders and other documents which an
enforcement officer is empowered to give by this Act may be in
the form and manner determined by the Chief Executive, and may be
given by any enforcement officer.

 (2) Where any such notice, order or document requires
authentication —

       (a) the signature of the Chief Executive or an enforcement
            officer; or

       (b) an official facsimile of such signature,

appended to it is sufficient authentication.

Inaccuracies in documents

 69.—(1) No misnomer or inaccurate description of any person,
premises, conveyance or any other thing named or described in any
notice, order or document prepared, issued or served under or for the
purposes of this Act in any way affects the operation of this Act as
respects that person, premises, conveyance or thing, if that person,
premises, conveyance or thing is so designated or described in the
notice, order or document as to be identifiable.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  64

 (2) No proceedings taken under or by virtue of this Act are invalid
for want of form.

Exemption

 70.—(1) Subject to any general or special direction of the Minister,
the Authority may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person or
class of persons or any health product or class of health products from
all or any of the provisions of this Act.

 (2) In granting an exemption under subsection (1), the Authority
may impose any conditions that it thinks fit.

 (3) An exemption granted under this section may be revoked at any
time.

Fees

 71.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, by
regulations prescribe the fees that are payable under and for the
purposes of this Act and the time at which and the manner in which
any fee is to be paid.

 (2) All fees collected under this Act must be paid into the funds of
the Authority.

Regulations

 72.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this
Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may, with the
approval of the Minister, make regulations for or with respect to all or
any of the matters set out in the Second Schedule, and provide in the
regulations that a contravention of the regulations shall be an offence
punishable with penalties not exceeding a fine of $20,000 or
imprisonment for a term of 12 months or both.

 (3) Regulations made under this section in relation to the supply or
use of health products do not affect the supply or use of health
products for veterinary purposes.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
65  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

 (4) Where any regulation expressly states that it is made pursuant to
paragraph 1(l) of the Second Schedule to implement any specified
international agreement to which Singapore is a party, that regulation
has effect despite any rule of law to the contrary.

 (5) All regulations made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

                                   PART 14

                    REGULATION OF SUPPLY AND
                 USE OF HEALTH PRODUCTS AND

                      ACTIVE INGREDIENTS FOR
                        VETERINARY PURPOSES

Supply and use of health products and active ingredients for
veterinary purposes

 73.—(1) The Minister charged with the responsibility for national
development may make regulations in relation to the supply or use for
veterinary purposes of —

       (a) any health product (whether or not such health product
            falls within any of the categories of health products
            specified in the First Schedule); or

       (b) any active ingredient.

 (2) Regulations made under subsection (1) may —

       (a) prohibit the supply or use of any health product or active
            ingredient for any veterinary purpose, whether absolutely
            or subject to such exceptions as may be prescribed;

       (b) require that the supply or use of any health product or
            active ingredient for veterinary purposes should be made
            only in accordance with the prescription of a veterinarian;

       (c) provide for such other restrictions or controls on the supply
            or use of any health product or active ingredient for
            veterinary purposes;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  66

(d) provide that a contravention thereof shall be an offence
     punishable with penalties not exceeding a fine of $20,000
     or imprisonment for a term of 12 months or both; and

          (e) provide for the administration and enforcement of such
              regulations by officers of the Agri‑Food and Veterinary
              Authority.

 (3) All regulations made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Powers of officers enforcing regulations made under section 73

 74. An officer of the Agri‑Food and Veterinary Authority
administering and enforcing any regulations made under section 73
has the same powers as are conferred on an enforcement officer by
section 49.

Application of Parts 10 to 13

 75. The provisions of Parts 10 to 13 apply, where relevant, with the
following modifications to the administration and enforcement of any
regulations made under section 73:

       (a) any reference in the provisions of those Parts to the
            Minister is to be read as a reference to the Minister charged
            with the responsibility for national development;

       (b) any reference in the provisions of those Parts to the
            Authority is to be read as a reference to the Agri‑Food and
            Veterinary Authority;

       (c) any reference in the provisions of those Parts to the Chief
            Executive is to be read as a reference to the Chief
            Executive of the Agri‑Food and Veterinary Authority;

       (d) any reference in the provisions of those Parts to an
            enforcement officer is to be read as a reference to an officer
            of the Agri‑Food and Veterinary Authority who is acting in
            the administration and enforcement of such regulations;
            and

       (e) any reference in the provisions of those Parts to a health
            product includes any health product that does not fall

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
67  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

    within any of the categories of health products specified in
    the First Schedule.

                  FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                          Sections 2(1), 4, 29(1), 73(1) and 75

         CATEGORIES AND DESCRIPTIONS OF
    HEALTH PRODUCTS TO WHICH ACT APPLIES

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                                                                  First column                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued                                                Third column        2020 Ed.
                                                                    Category                                                                                             Exceptions and limitations
                                                                                                                        Second column
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025  1. Medical device
                                                                                                                          Description
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Health Products Act 2007
                                                                                “Medical device” means —
                                                                                                                                                                                                     68
                                                                                  (a) any instrument, apparatus, implement, machine, appliance, implant, reagent
                                                                                       for in‑vitro use, software, material or other similar or related article that is
                                                                                       intended by its manufacturer to be used, whether alone or in combination, for
                                                                                       humans for one or more of the specific purposes of —

                                                                                            (i) diagnosis, prevention, monitoring, treatment or alleviation of
                                                                                                 disease;

                                                                                            (ii) diagnosis, monitoring, treatment or alleviation of, or compensation
                                                                                                 for, an injury;

                                                                                           (iii) investigation, replacement, modification or support of the anatomy
                                                                                                 or of a physiological process, mainly for medical purposes;

                                                                                           (iv) supporting or sustaining life;

                                                                                            (v) control of conception;

                                                                                           (vi) disinfection of medical devices; or

                                                                                          (vii) providing information by means of in‑vitro examination of
                                                                                                 specimens derived from the human body, for medical or diagnostic
                                                                                                 purposes,

                                                                                       and which does not achieve its primary intended action in or on the human
                                                                                       body by pharmacological, immunological or metabolic means, but which
                                                                                       may be assisted in its intended function by such means, and which is not a
                                                                                       cell, tissue or gene therapy product; and
                                                                                                        FIRST SCHEDULE — continued                                                                            69

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025  2. Cosmetic products      (b) the following articles:                                                                                               Health Products Act 2007
                                                          3. Therapeutic product
                                                                                              (i) any implant for the modification or fixation of any body part;
                                                                                                                                                                                                              2020 Ed.
                                                                                              (ii) any injectable dermal filler or mucous membrane filler;

                                                                                             (iii) any instrument, apparatus, implement, machine or appliance
                                                                                                   intended to be used for the removal or degradation of fat by invasive
                                                                                                   means.

                                                                                  “Cosmetic product” means any substance or preparation that is intended by its Sections 12(1), (2) and (3), 13(1), (2)
                                                                                  manufacturer to be placed in contact with the various external parts of the human and (3), 14(1) and (2), 15 and 19(1)(b),
                                                                                  body or with the teeth or the mucous membranes of the oral cavity, with a view and Parts 6 and 7 do not apply.
                                                                                  exclusively or mainly to —

                                                                                              (a) cleaning them;

                                                                                              (b) perfuming them;
                                                                                              (c) changing their appearance;

                                                                                              (d) correcting body odours;

                                                                                              (e) protecting them; or

                                                                                              (f) keeping them in good condition.

                                                                                    (1) “Therapeutic product” means any substance that —

                                                                                              (a) is intended for use by and in humans for a therapeutic, preventive,
                                                                                                   palliative or diagnostic purpose, including any of the following
                                                                                                   purposes:

                                                                                                          (i) for preventing, diagnosing, monitoring, treating, curing or
                                                                                                              alleviating any disease, disorder, ailment, injury, handicap
                                                                      FIRST SCHEDULE — continued                                       2020 Ed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025                  or abnormal physical or mental state, or any symptom         Health Products Act 2007
                                                                          thereof;

                                                                     (ii) for investigating, modifying or replacing any physiological
                                                                          process;

                                                                    (iii) for influencing, controlling or preventing conception;

                                                                    (iv) for inducing anaesthesia;

                                                          (b) has as a constituent any of the following active ingredients:

                                                                      (i) any chemical or botanical element, naturally‑occurring
                                                                          chemical or botanical material, or chemical product
                                                                          obtained by chemical change or synthesis;

                                                                     (ii) any metabolite from a micro‑organism;

                                                                    (iii) any macromolecule extracted from an organism;

                                                                    (iv) any substance derived from a biological system, including
                                                                          any of the following:

                                                                             (A) a whole cell or micro‑organism, such as a whole
                                                                                   virus or bacterium used as a vaccine;

                                                                             (B) a part of a micro‑organism, such as a sub‑unit
                                                                                   vaccine;

                                                                             (C) a plasma‑derived product;

                                                                             (D) a biotechnology‑derived substance, such as a
                                                                                   protein or polypeptide, or a recombinant vaccine
                                                                                   for a preventive purpose;

                                                                                                                                       70
                                                                               FIRST SCHEDULE — continued                                                                     71

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025            (c) exerts an inherent effect either pharmacologically, chemically or by                                  Health Products Act 2007
                                                                         other physiological means, leading to its use for a therapeutic,
                                                                         preventive, palliative or diagnostic purpose; and                                                    2020 Ed.

                                                                    (d) is not any of the following:

                                                                                (i) a medical device;

                                                                               (ii) a cell, tissue or gene therapy product;

                                                                              (iii) whole blood or any blood component;

                                                                              (iv) any Chinese proprietary medicine;

                                                                               (v) any homoeopathic medicine;

                                                                              (vi) any medicated oil or balm;

                                                                             (vii) any quasi‑medicinal product;

                                                                             (viii) any traditional medicine.

                                                          (2) For the purposes of paragraph (1) —

                                                                  “Chinese proprietary medicine” means any medicinal product used in the system of therapeutics according to
                                                                       the traditional Chinese method, that is to say, any medicinal product —
                                                                               (a) which has been manufactured into a finished product;

                                                                               (b) which contains one or more active substances derived
                                                                                    wholly from any plant, animal or mineral, or any
                                                                                    combination thereof;

                                                                               (c) which is, or all of the active substances of which are,
                                                                                    described in the current edition of “A Dictionary of
                                                             FIRST SCHEDULE — continued                                                                   2020 Ed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025       Chinese Pharmacy” «中药大辞典» or “The Chinese
                                                               Herbal Medicine Materia Medica” «本草纲目»;

                                                          (d) which does not contain as an active substance any
                                                               chemically‑defined isolated constituent of any plant,
                                                               animal or mineral, or any combination thereof; and

                                                          (e) which is not intended to be administered by injection into a
                                                               human body;

                                                                                                                            “current edition”, in         Health Products Act 2007
                                                                                                                                relation to any
                                                                                                                                publication which         72
                                                                                                                                describes a Chinese
                                                                                                                                proprietary medicine,
                                                                                                                                means the latest edition
                                                                                                                                that has taken effect
                                                                                                                                when the Chinese
                                                                                                                                proprietary medicine
                                                                                                                                in question is supplied,
                                                                                                                                and includes that
                                                                                                                                edition as affected by
                                                                                                                                every amendment,
                                                                                                                                addition or deletion to
                                                                                                                                that edition that has
                                                                                                                                taken effect;

                                                                                                                            “homoeopathic medicine”
                                                                                                                                means any substance
                                                                                                                                used in the system of
                                                                                                                                therapeutics in which a
                                                                                                                                disease is treated by
                                                             FIRST SCHEDULE — continued                                       73

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025  (a) any essential oil;                      the use of minute       Health Products Act 2007
                                                          (b) any fixed oil derived from plants;      amounts of one or
                                                          (c) methyl salicylate;                      more substances
                                                          (d) menthol;                                which, in their
                                                          (e) camphor;                                undiluted forms, are
                                                          (f) peppermint;                             capable of producing
                                                                                                      in healthy humans
                                                                                                      symptoms similar to
                                                                                                      those of the disease
                                                                                                      being treated;

                                                                                                  “medicated oil or balm”
                                                                                                      means any external
                                                                                                      medicated
                                                                                                      embrocation,
                                                                                                      medicated cream,
                                                                                                      ointment or inhalant,
                                                                                                      and which contains one
                                                                                                      or more of the
                                                                                                      following active
                                                                                                      ingredients:

                                                                                                                              2020 Ed.
                                                             FIRST SCHEDULE — continued                                “medicinal product” has     2020 Ed.
                                                                                                                           the meaning given by
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025  (a) any anti‑dandruff preparation;                               the Medicines           Health Products Act 2007
                                                          (b) any medicated cosmetic product for the treatment of          Act 1975;

                                                               pimples or acne, except any preparation containing      “quasi‑medicinal product”
                                                               etretinate or 13‑cis‑retinoic acid;                         means —
                                                          (c) any medicated soap;
                                                          (d) any sweet for relieving coughs or throat irritations;    “traditional medicine”
                                                          (e) any medicated plaster;                                       means any medicinal
                                                          (f) any sunscreen or suntan preparation;                         product consisting of
                                                          (g) any medicated beverage;                                      one or more substances
                                                          (h) any vitamin or nutritional preparation from any natural
                                                               source; or
                                                          (i) any medicated toothpaste;

                                                                                                                                                   74
                                                                                   FIRST SCHEDULE — continued                                                                                         75

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025                                                                                                                     derived from any plant,
                                                                                                                                                                             animal or mineral, or
                                                                                                                                                                             any combination
                                                                                                                                                                             thereof, but does not
                                                                                                                                                                             include the following:

                                                          4. Oral dental gum                              (a) any medicinal product to be administered by injection into                              Health Products Act 2007
                                                                                                               a human body;
                                                          5. Cell, tissue or gene
                                                             therapy product                              (b) any vaccine to be administered to a human;

                                                                                                          (c) any product derived from human blood;                                                   2020 Ed.

                                                                                                          (d) any item specified in the Poisons List in the Schedule to the
                                                                                                               Poisons Act 1938;

                                                                                                          (e) any Chinese proprietary medicine.

                                                                                   “Oral dental gum” means any chewing gum, or any similar substance prepared
                                                                                   from a gum base of vegetable or synthetic origin, and intended to be chewed for use
                                                                                   in promoting dental health or oral hygiene, but does not include any such gum
                                                                                   which is manufactured or imported into Singapore solely for research and
                                                                                   development purposes by a person who is registered under the Control of
                                                                                   Manufacture Act 1959 in respect of the manufacture of chewing gum.

                                                                                     (1) “Cell, tissue or gene therapy product” means any substance that —

                                                                                               (a) is intended for use by and in humans for a therapeutic, preventive,
                                                                                                    palliative or diagnostic purpose, including any of the following
                                                                                                    purposes:

                                                                                                           (i) for preventing, diagnosing, treating, curing or alleviating
                                                                                                               any disease, disorder, injury, ailment, handicap or
                                                                      FIRST SCHEDULE — continued                                        2020 Ed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025                  abnormal physical or mental state, or any symptom             Health Products Act 2007
                                                                          thereof;
                                                                                                                                        76
                                                                     (ii) for replacing, repairing, regenerating or reconstructing any
                                                                          anatomy, or for modifying or replacing any physiological
                                                                          process;

                                                                    (iii) for regulating, repairing, replacing, adding or deleting a
                                                                          genetic sequence or modifying genetic material;

                                                                    (iv) for supporting or sustaining life;

                                                          (b) has as a constituent any of the following substances or combination
                                                               of substances:

                                                                      (i) viable or non‑viable human cells or tissues;

                                                                     (ii) viable animal cells or tissues;

                                                                    (iii) recombinant nucleic acids, where the effect of the
                                                                          recombinant nucleic acid relates directly to the
                                                                          recombinant nucleic acid sequence that it contains or to the
                                                                          product of the genetic expression of its sequence;

                                                          (c) achieves its primary intended action by pharmacological,
                                                               immunological, physiological, metabolic or physical means, leading
                                                               to its use for a therapeutic, preventive, palliative or diagnostic
                                                               purpose; and

                                                          (d) is not any of the following:

                                                                      (i) a recombinant vaccine for a preventive purpose;

                                                                     (ii) an in‑vitro diagnostic product;
                                                                               FIRST SCHEDULE — continued                                                                      77

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025                      (iii) bone marrow, peripheral blood or umbilical or placental                                    Health Products Act 2007
                                                                                    cord blood from a human that is minimally manipulated
                                                                                    and intended for homologous use;

                                                                              (iv) cells and tissues obtained from a patient that are minimally
                                                                                    manipulated and re‑implanted for homologous use into the
                                                                                    same patient during the same surgical procedure;

                                                                               (v) organs and tissues that are minimally manipulated and
                                                                                    intended for transplant;

                                                                              (vi) reproductive cells (sperm, eggs) and embryos intended for
                                                                                    assisted reproduction;

                                                                             (vii) whole blood and any blood component that is minimally
                                                                                    manipulated and intended for treating blood loss or blood
                                                                                    disorders.

                                                          (2) For the purposes of paragraph (1) —

                                                                                                                                                 “homologous use” means        2020 Ed.
                                                                                                                                                    the use of a cell, tissue
                                                                                                                                                    or gene therapy product
                                                                                                                                                    to repair, reconstruct,
                                                                                                                                                    replace or supplement
                                                                                                                                                    the cells or tissue of an
                                                                                                                                                    individual (called the
                                                                                                                                                    recipient) if the cell,
                                                                                                                                                    tissue or gene therapy
                                                                                                                                                    product performs the
                                                                                                                                                    same basic function or
                                                                                                                                                    functions in the
                                                                                                                                                    recipient as the original
                                                             FIRST SCHEDULE — continued                               cells or tissue in the      2020 Ed.
                                                                                                                      donor in the same
Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025  (a) cutting or sizing;                                      anatomical or               Health Products Act 2007
                                                          (b) grinding;                                               histological
                                                          (c) shaping;                                                environment;
                                                          (d) centrifugation;
                                                          (e) soaking in an antibiotic or antimicrobial solution;  “minimally manipulated”,
                                                          (f) sterilization or irradiation;                           in relation to a cell or
                                                          (g) cell separation, concentration or purification;         tissue (but not a gene),
                                                                                                                      means processing the
                                                                                                                      cell or tissue by way of
                                                                                                                      any process so that the
                                                                                                                      biological
                                                                                                                      characteristics or
                                                                                                                      functions of the cell or
                                                                                                                      the structural properties
                                                                                                                      of the tissue (as the case
                                                                                                                      may be) are not altered,
                                                                                                                      such as by —

                                                                                                                                                  78
                                                             FIRST SCHEDULE — continued  79

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025  (h) filtration;
                                                          (i) lyophilisation;
                                                          (j) freezing;
                                                          (k) cryopreservation; or
                                                          (l) vitrification.

                                                                                         Health Products Act 2007

                                                                                         2020 Ed.
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  80

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

                                [S 564/2007; S 684/2007; S 438/2010; S 328/2016;
                                                                S 320/2018; S 103/2021]

                           SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                             Section 72(2) and (4)

                        MATTERS FOR OR IN RESPECT OF
                     WHICH REGULATIONS MAY BE MADE

                                   UNDER SECTION 72

 1. The matters in respect of which regulations may be made under section 72 are
as follows:

        (a) for prescribing the requirements in accordance with which the
             manufacture, import, supply, storage, transport, presentation,
             advertisement, administration and use of health products are to be
             carried out;

        (b) for prohibiting the manufacture, import, supply, possession, storage,
             transport, advertisement, administration and use of health products that
             are dangerous to human health;

        (c) for prescribing the standards for health products in relation to their
             composition, quality, efficacy and safety for use;

        (d) for prescribing the requirements and procedure for obtaining any
             licence under this Act;

        (e) for prescribing the requirements in accordance with which the
             manufacture, import, supply, storage and transport of active
             ingredients are to be carried out;

         (f) for prescribing the requirements and procedure for the registration of a
             health product;

        (g) for prescribing the duties and obligations of a person to whom any
             licence or registration is issued or granted under this Act, and the duties
             and obligation of the person upon the suspension, revocation or
             cancellation of the licence or registration;

        (h) for prescribing the requirements for the presentation and advertisement
             of health products;

         (i) for regulating the conduct of clinical trials of health products, and
             prescribing the matters relating to any consent for a subject to
             participate in such a trial, including —

                  (i) the persons who may so consent;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
81  Health Products Act 2007                                  2020 Ed.

    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

    (ii) the considerations which any such person must take into
         account before so consenting;

    (iii) the circumstances in which the consent of such person may be
          relied upon; and

    (iv) the circumstances in which no consent of any person is
         required for the subject’s participation in the trial,

    (i) and whether any matter so prescribed has effect in addition to or
        despite any other written law or rule of law;

    (j) for prescribing the procedure for the procurement, testing, examination
        or analysis of any sample under this Act;

    (k) for providing for the conduct by the Authority or an enforcement
        officer of routine inspections of —

    (i) premises that are being used for the manufacture, supply or
        storage of health products or active ingredients; or

    (ii) conveyances that are being used for the transport of health
         products or active ingredients;

    (l) for implementing any international agreement to which Singapore is a
        party that concerns the regulation of the manufacture, import, supply,
        possession, storage, transport, presentation, advertisement,
        administration and use of health products and active ingredients;

    (m) for providing for the protection of any confidential information that
         relates to any health product and that is received by the Authority or
         any enforcement officer in the course of administering and enforcing
         this Act, and for prescribing the purposes for which such confidential
         information may be disclosed to any specified person;

    (n) for prescribing the offences that may be compounded under section 65;
         and

    (o) for prescribing any other matter that is necessary to be prescribed for
         the administration and enforcement of this Act.

2. Regulations made under paragraph 1 may —

    (a) restrict the classes of persons by whom and the circumstances under
         which any health product or active ingredient may be manufactured,
         imported, supplied, kept in possession, stored, transported or used;

    (b) restrict the classes of persons to whom and the circumstances under
         which any health product or active ingredient may be supplied;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Health Products Act 2007                                  82

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

(c) restrict the places at which, the manner in which and the persons by
    whom any health product or active ingredient may be stored;

(d) require records to be kept or submitted to the Authority in relation to
     the manufacture, import, supply, possession, storage, transport or use
     of any health product or active ingredient;

(e) make provisions for the regulation of places at which health products
    are supplied by retail;

          (f) restrict the classes of persons who may apply for a licence or
              registration under this Act;

(g) prescribe the requirements which must be satisfied by any person
     before a licence or registration may be granted to the person;

(h) prescribe the information, documents and samples that must be
     submitted by an applicant for any licence or registration; and

          (i) prescribe the types of assessment and evaluation to be made of any
              health product before it may be registered.

                                                                                                          [29/2015]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                   LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
               HEALTH PRODUCTS ACT 2007

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 15 of 2007 — Health Products Act 2007

Bill            : 3/2007

First Reading   : 22 January 2007

Second and Third Readings : 12 February 2007

Commencement    : 1 November 2007 (except Part XIV)

2. G.N. No. S 564/2007 — Health Products Act (Amendment of First
                                   Schedule) Order 2007

Commencement    : 1 November 2007

3. G.N. No. S 684/2007 — Health Products Act (Amendment of First
                                   Schedule) (No. 2) Order 2007

Commencement    : 1 January 2008

4. 2008 Revised Edition — Health Products Act (Chapter 122D)

Operation       : 31 December 2008

5. G.N. No. S 438/2010 — Health Products Act (Amendment of First
                                   Schedule) Order 2010

Commencement    : 10 August 2010

6. Act 29 of 2015 — Human Biomedical Research Act 2015
   (Amendments made by section 66 of the above Act)

Bill            : 25/2015

First Reading   : 13 July 2015

Second Reading  : 17 August 2015

Third Reading   : 18 August 2015

Commencement    : 1 July 2016 (section 66)

7. G.N. No. S 328/2016 — Health Products Act (Amendment of First
                                   Schedule) Order 2016

Commencement    : 1 November 2016

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
               ii

8. G.N. No. S 320/2018 — Health Products Act (Amendment of First
                                   Schedule) Order 2018

Commencement   : 1 June 2018

9. Act 10 of 2019 — National Parks Board (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 12 of the above Act)

Bill           : 4/2019

First Reading  : 15 January 2019

Second and Third Readings : 12 February 2019

Commencement   : 1 April 2019 (sections 12(a) and (b))

10. G.N. No. S 103/2021 — Health Products Act (Amendment of First
                                    Schedule) Order 2021

Commencement   : 1 March 2021

11. 2020 Revised Edition — Health Products Act 2007

Operation      : 31 December 2021

12. Act 19 of 2025 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2025

Bill           : 9/2025

First Reading  : 22 September 2025

Second and Third Readings : 15 October 2025

Commencement   : 5 December 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
.                                 iii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
