Western Australia
Wire and Wire Netting Act 1926

Western Australia
Wire and Wire Netting Act 1926
Contents
1.	Short title	1
2.	Interpretation	1
3.	Authorization of expenditure	1
4.	Supply of wire and wire netting	2
5.	Payment of costs	2
6.	Commonwealth loans	2
7.	Regulations	3
	Notes
	Compilation table	4


Western Australia
Wire and Wire Netting Act 1926
An Act to authorize the supply of Wire and Wire Netting to Settlers.
Be it enacted by the King’s Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council and Legislative Assembly of Western Australia, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows: —
1.	Short title
		This Act may be cited as the Wire and Wire Netting Act 1926.
2.	Interpretation
		In this Act —
	“Fencing wire” includes barbed wire;
	“Minister” means the Minister for Lands;
	“Mortgage” includes a statutory charge.
	“Settler” means and includes the holder of a pastoral lease, conditional purchase lease, or homestead farm under the Land Act, 1898, or of freehold land hereinafter referred to as a “holding”;
	“Wire netting” means marsupial netting, rabbit netting, or dogproof netting.
3.	Authorization of expenditure
		The Treasurer may, with the approval of the Governor, expend from moneys appropriated by Parliament for the purposes of this Act, an amount not exceeding six hundred and six thousand nine hundred and fortyfive pounds.
4.	Supply of wire and wire netting
		The Minister may, with money so provided, obtain and supply to settlers fencing wire and wire netting.
5.	Payment of costs
	(1)	The cost, to be fixed by the Minister, of the fencing wire and wire netting so supplied, with interest, sinking fund contributions, and other charges as prescribed, shall be payable by the settler by fifty equal halfyearly instalments.
	(2)	Every approval of an application for the supply of fencing wire and wire netting shall be subject to security being given by the settler to the satisfaction of the Minister for the payment as aforesaid as a first charge on the settler's holding, and other land improved by the use of such fencing wire and wire netting.
	(3)	If the holding or other land as aforesaid of the settler is subject to a mortgage to the agricultural Bank, or the Industries assistance Board, the mortgage to be given to the Minister shall rank pari passu with the mortgage to the agricultural Bank, and in priority to the mortgage to the Industries Assistance Board.
	(4)	The cost of transit from the port of entry to the settler's land shall be payable by the settler as prescribed.
6.	Commonwealth loans
	(1)	The Treasurer may agree with the Commonwealth Government for loans to the State for the purposes of this Act.
	(2)	So far as money expended by the Treasurer for the purposes of this Act is recouped by advances by the Commonwealth to the State under an agreement thereby fencing wire and wire netting is to be supplied to settlers on terms more favourable than as prescribed by and under this Act, the Minister may adjust in accordance therewith the terms and conditions of securities already taken for the payment of the cost of fencing wire and wire netting previously supplied to settlers; and payments made under such securities prior to such adjustment in excess of the instalments payable under the more favourable terms shall be placed to the credit of the settler and applied towards the payment of subsequent instalments.
7.	Regulations
		The Governor may make regulations for the purposes of this Act, and by such regulations may prescribe fees to be payable on application, and for the preparation and registration of securities.

Notes
1.	This is a compilation of the Wire and Wire Netting Act 1926.  The following table contains information about that Act.
Compilation table
Short title
Number and year
Assent
Commencement
Wire and Wire Netting Act 1926
35 of 1926
8 Dec 1926
8 Dec 1926

