THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
         RESOURCE SUSTAINABILITY ACT 2019

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
                                                                   2020 Ed.

Resource Sustainability Act 2019

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
         Interpretation
     1.  Purposes of Act
     2.
     3.

                                       PART 2
                 APPLICATION AND ADMINISTRATION

4. Application of Act to Government
5. Administration of Act

                                        PART 3
                 ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONIC WASTE

                  Division 1 — Application and interpretation
 6. Application to regulated products
 7. Interpretation of this Part

                     Division 2 — Registration of producers
 8. Unauthorised supply of regulated products
 9. Registration of producers
10. Duration, cancellation and revocation of registration
11. Register of registered producers

                     Division 3 — Obligations of producers
12. Certain registered producers must join licensed scheme
13. Collection and disposal of unwanted regulated non‑consumer

         products

           Division 4 — Retailers of regulated consumer products
14. Retailers must collect and dispose of unwanted products
15. Large retailers must offer in-store collection of certain e-waste

                                                      1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                           2

          Division 5 — Miscellaneous

Section   Restriction of public collection of e‑waste
          Proper disposal of regulated products
   16.    Keeping of records
   17.
   18.

                                        PART 4

               REPORTING IN RELATION TO PACKAGING

19. Interpretation of this Part
20. Reporting of specified packaging imported or used
21. Submission of 3R plan
22. Requirements for reports and plans
23. Keeping of records

          PART 4A

          DISPOSABLE CARRIER BAG CHARGE

          Division 1 — Interpretation

23A. Interpretation of this Part

          Division 2 — Registration of retailers

23B.      Obligation to apply for registration
23C.      Applications for registration
23D.      Entitlement to apply to deregister as registered retailer
23E.      Applications for deregistration

          Division 3 — Charge for disposable carrier bags

23F.      Registered retailer must impose and collect charge for
          disposable carrier bags
23G.      Preventing circumvention of charge
23H.      Communication and recording of charge

          Division 4 — Miscellaneous

23I.      Submission of prescribed information
23J.      Keeping of records
23K.      Publication of information
23L.      Direction to rectify incomplete or inaccurate information

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
3  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                                2020 Ed.

   PART 4B

   BEVERAGE CONTAINER RETURN SCHEME

   Division 1 — General

Section
   23M. Interpretation of this Part
   23N. Prescribed deposit mark

   Division 2 — Supply of beverage products

   23O. Producers must join licensed scheme
   23P. Beverage containers must display deposit mark and barcode
   23Q. Deposit for beverage product
   23R. Producers must provide deposit to scheme licensee

   Division 3 — Return point operators

   23S. Provision of return points
   23T. Prohibition against operating return points

   Division 4 — Refunds of deposits

   23U. Refunds of deposits by return point operators

   Division 5 — Miscellaneous

   23V. Keeping of records
   23W. Producers must submit information to scheme licensee
   23X. Unauthorised use of deposit mark

                                           PART 5

                                      FOOD WASTE

                                   Division 1 — General

   24. Interpretation of this Part
   25. Prescribed buildings

                         Division 2 — Food waste segregation

   26. Occupiers of prescribed buildings to segregate food waste
   27. Approved alternative food waste disposal or treatment

            arrangements
   27A. Provision of segregated waste disposal facilities
   27B. Treatment of food waste

                          Division 3 — Food waste reporting

   27C. Reporting of food waste treated

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                            4

Section
   27D. Requirements for reports
   27E. Keeping of records

                                  PART 6

          PRODUCER RESPONSIBILITY SCHEMES

28.       Licence required to operate producer responsibility scheme
29.       Producer responsibility scheme licence
29A.      Requirements relating to key appointment holders
30.       Licence conditions
31.       Revocation of licence
32.       Financial penalty
33.       Recovery of financial penalties
34.       Keeping of records
35.       Submission of annual report
36.       Disclosure of information

                                        PART 7

                                  ENFORCEMENT

37. Entering non-residential premises, etc., to monitor compliance
38. Powers of authorised officers in monitoring compliance
39. Authorised officer may require persons to provide information

         and produce documents
40. Power to demand names and addresses
41. Penalty for obstructing authorised officer in his or her duty

                                        PART 8

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

42. Giving false information
43. Restriction on disclosure of confidential information
44. Appeal to Minister
45. Minister may designate others to hear appeals
46. Offences by corporations
47. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
48. Service of documents, etc.
49. Composition of offences
50. Exemption
51. Amendment of Schedule
52. Regulations

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
5  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

Section
            The Schedule — Specified waste

An Act to impose obligations relating to the collection and treatment
  of electrical and electronic waste and food waste, to require
  reporting of packaging imported into or used in Singapore, to
  regulate persons operating producer responsibility schemes, and to
  promote resource sustainability.

                [1 January 2020: Except sections 12 to 17 and Parts 4
                                                                          and 5 ;

                                                          1 July 2020: Part 4 ;
                                           1 July 2021: Sections 12 to 17 ]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1.—(1) This Act is the Resource Sustainability Act 2019.

 (2) [Deleted by Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Agency” means the National Environment Agency established
         under the National Environment Agency Act 2002;

      “authorised officer” means an authorised officer appointed
         under section 5(2);

      “consumer”, in relation to any regulated goods or regulated
         product, means an individual who purchases or intends to
         purchase the regulated goods or regulated product for
         household use or private consumption;

      “dispose”, in relation to any thing, means to dispose of the thing
         as waste;

      “import” does not include the bringing into Singapore of any
         regulated goods or regulated product which are to be taken

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          6

          out of Singapore on the same conveyance on which they were
          brought into Singapore without any landing or transhipment
          within Singapore;

“key appointment holder”, in relation to a holder of a licence to
   operate a producer responsibility scheme, means —

          (a) if a company, limited liability partnership or other
               body corporate — a member of the board of directors,
               committee, board of trustees or other governing body
               of the licensee;

          (b) if a partnership — a partner of the licensee; or

        (c) in any other case — any person, by whatever name
             called, who has general management or supervision
             of the business of the licensee;

                                                                       [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

“licensed e-waste recycler” means a person who is licensed
   under section 23(2) of the Environmental Public Health
   Act 1987 to operate a disposal facility that receives, stores,
   sorts, processes or treats electrical and electronic waste;

                                                                       [Act 14 of 2023 wef 26/05/2023]

“licensed scheme” means a producer responsibility scheme
   operated by a person who is licensed under section 29;

“licensed waste collector” means a person who is licensed under
   section 31 of the Environmental Public Health Act 1987;

“occupier”, in relation to any premises, means a person —

          (a) in occupation of the premises or part of the premises;
               or

          (b) having the charge, management or control of the
               premises or part of the premises, either on the
               person’s own account or as agent of another person,

          but does not include a lodger;

“producer responsibility scheme” means a scheme in which —

          (a) the operator of the scheme collects, or organises the
               collection of, any specified waste from the public and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
7  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

   causes such waste collected to be treated and
   recycled; and

   (b) members of the scheme finance the costs of operating
        the scheme, including the costs of the collection,
        treatment and recycling of the waste collected;

   “retailer” means a person who carries on a trade or business of
      supplying any regulated goods or regulated product to
      consumers;

   “Singapore-connected person” means any person who is —

   (a) a citizen or a permanent resident of Singapore;

   (b) a company or other body corporate incorporated in,
        or having its central management and control in,
        Singapore; or

   (c) an unincorporated body established in Singapore;

   “specified waste” means any waste specified in the Schedule;

   “waste” includes any discarded, rejected, unwanted, surplus or
      abandoned substance, and a substance is not precluded from
      being waste for the purposes of this Act merely because it is
      or may be processed, recycled or recovered.

 (2) In this Act, a reference to the collection of any waste regulated
under this Act means the collection, receipt, removal, transportation
or storage of the waste for the disposal of the waste.

Purposes of Act

 3. The purposes of this Act are —

       (a) to implement a framework where persons who profit from
            the supply of products bear the cost of collecting and
            treating these products when they become waste;

       (b) to encourage producers of packaging to reduce, re‑use or
            recycle packaging;

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 26/05/2023]

      (ba) to reduce the use of disposable carrier bags by persons
            supplied goods by way of retail; and

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 26/05/2023]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          8

          (c) to enable proper segregation and treatment of food waste.

                                    PART 2

              APPLICATION AND ADMINISTRATION

Application of Act to Government

 4.—(1) Except as provided in subsection (2), this Act binds the
Government.

 (2) Nothing in this Act renders the Government liable to
prosecution for an offence.

 (3) To avoid doubt, a person is not immune from prosecution for
any offence under this Act by reason only that the person is engaged
to provide services to or on behalf of the Government.

Administration of Act

 5.—(1) The Agency is responsible for the administration and
enforcement of this Act, subject to the general or special directions of
the Minister.

 (2) The Agency may appoint, by name or office, any officer or
employee of the Agency to be an authorised officer to carry out any
function or duty, or exercise any power, conferred on an authorised
officer under this Act, as the Agency may specify.

                                    PART 3

             ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONIC WASTE

              Division 1 — Application and interpretation

Application to regulated products

 6. This Part applies only to a class or type of electrical or electronic
product (including an electrical or electronic product supplied as a
component of another product) that is prescribed to be a regulated
product.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
9  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

Interpretation of this Part

   7.—(1) In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

   “e-waste” means any regulated product that is intended for
      disposal and not for re‑use;

   “registered” means registered under section 9(2);

   “regulated consumer product” means any regulated product
      prescribed as such under section 12(2);

   “regulated non-consumer product” means any regulated product
      that is not a regulated consumer product;

   “regulated product” means any class or type of electrical or
      electronic product prescribed as such under section 6;

   “supply”, in relation to any regulated product, includes —

   (a) the supply of the regulated product by way of sale
        (including by barter or exchange) or hire‑purchase;

   (b) the supply of the regulated product by retail or by
        wholesale;

   (c) the supply of the regulated product in connection
       with any agreement; and

   (d) the offer to supply the regulated product or exposure
        of the regulated product for supply.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), a person is the producer of a regulated
product if the person —

   (a) carries on a business of supplying the regulated product in
        Singapore; and

   (b) in furtherance of that business —

   (i) imports the regulated product into Singapore;

   (ii) manufactures the regulated product in Singapore; or

   (iii) engages another person to manufacture the regulated
         product in Singapore or otherwise causes such
         manufacture.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          10

 (3) A manufacturer of a regulated product is not the producer of the
regulated product if the manufacturer manufactures the regulated
product for or on behalf of a Singapore‑connected person.

                 Division 2 — Registration of producers

Unauthorised supply of regulated products

 8.—(1) A producer of a regulated product must not supply the
regulated product or any other regulated product in Singapore if the
producer is not registered under section 9(2).

 (2) A producer of a regulated product who, without reasonable
excuse, contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

Registration of producers

 9.—(1) A producer of a regulated product in Singapore may apply
to the Agency to be registered under subsection (2).

 (2) The Agency may register, subject to such conditions as the
Agency thinks fit to impose, or refuse to register, any applicant under
subsection (1).

 (3) Any registration under subsection (2) is transferable only with
the written approval of the Agency.

 (4) A producer of a regulated product who is aggrieved by the
Agency’s decision to impose a condition on a registration or to refuse
to register the producer under subsection (2) may, within 14 days after
receiving notice of the Agency’s decision, appeal to the Minister.

Duration, cancellation and revocation of registration

 10.—(1) A registration of a producer of a regulated product under
section 9(2) remains valid unless cancelled or revoked under this
section.

 (2) The Agency may cancel a registration under section 9(2) of a
producer of a regulated product if —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
11  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

    (a) the producer of the regulated product applies to the Agency
         to cancel the registration; or

    (b) the producer of the regulated product winds up, goes into
         liquidation or is otherwise dissolved.

 (3) The Agency may revoke the registration of a producer of a
regulated product after giving notice to the producer concerned and
after such inquiry as the Agency thinks fit, on any of the following
grounds:

    (a) the producer procured the registration by providing any
         information or document to the Agency that is false or
         misleading in any material particular;

    (b) the Agency is satisfied that the producer has contravened
         any provision of this Part or any condition of the
         registration.

 (4) The Agency must, before revoking a registration under
subsection (3), give the producer of a regulated product concerned
a written notice of its intention to do so and an opportunity to submit
reasons, within the period specified in that notice, as to why the
registration should not be revoked.

 (5) The Agency must, within 14 days after revoking any
registration under subsection (3), inform the producer of a
regulated product whose registration is revoked in writing of the
grounds for the revocation.

 (6) A producer of a regulated product who is aggrieved by the
Agency’s decision under subsection (3) to revoke the producer’s
registration may, within 14 days after receiving the grounds for the
revocation under subsection (5), appeal to the Minister.

Register of registered producers

 11.—(1) The Agency must maintain a register in which is entered
such particulars of every registered producer of a regulated product as
the Agency determines.

 (2) Where the registration of a producer of a regulated product has
been cancelled or revoked (as the case may be), the Agency may —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          12

(a) remove the particulars of the producer from the register; or

(b) indicate the fact of the cancellation or revocation of
     registration against the particulars of the producer in the
     register.

 (3) The Agency may, upon an application by any person
accompanied by such fee as may be prescribed, provide to that
person a certified copy of an entry in the register maintained under
this section.

                 Division 3 — Obligations of producers

Certain registered producers must join licensed scheme

 12.—(1) A registered producer of a regulated product must not
supply any regulated consumer product in any compliance year if the
registered producer —

       (a) has, on average for each year in the relevant period
            immediately preceding the compliance year, supplied more
            than the threshold prescribed for that regulated consumer
            product; and

       (b) is not a member of a licensed scheme for the regulated
            consumer product.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Minister may
prescribe —

       (a) any regulated product as a regulated consumer product;
            and

       (b) a threshold that applies to —

               (i) one class or type of regulated consumer product; or

              (ii) 2 or more classes or types of regulated consumer
                   products collectively.

 (3) A registered producer of a regulated product who, without
reasonable excuse, contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
13  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

(4) In this section —

    “compliance year” means the period starting 1 July in any year
       and ending 30 June in the following year (both dates
       inclusive);

    “relevant period” means —

    (a) in relation to the compliance year from 1 July 2021 to
         30 June 2022 (both dates inclusive) — the year 2020;

    (b) in relation to the compliance year from 1 July 2022 to
         30 June 2023 (both dates inclusive) — the years 2020
         and 2021; and

    (c) in relation to any compliance year after 30 June
        2023 — 3 calendar years.

Collection and disposal of unwanted regulated non‑consumer
products

 13.—(1) Where a person, on or after 1 July 2021, presents a
regulated non‑consumer product to the producer of the regulated
non‑consumer product (whether or not registered) for the purposes of
disposal, or requests that producer to dispose of the regulated
non‑consumer product, the producer —

       (a) must, within a reasonable time after being presented or
            receiving the request, collect the regulated non‑consumer
            product from any premises specified by the person; and

       (b) must not demand or require the person to pay any
            consideration for the collection and disposal of the
            regulated non‑consumer product (such as the cost of any
            labour or transport).

 (2) Where the producer of a regulated non‑consumer product
contravenes subsection (1)(a), the Agency may, by written notice
served on the producer, direct the producer to collect the regulated
non‑consumer product from any premises (whether or not specified
by the person mentioned in subsection (1)) and within the time,
specified in the written notice.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          14

 (3) A producer of a regulated non‑consumer product who is
aggrieved by any direction of the Agency under subsection (2)
may, within 14 days after being notified of the direction, appeal to the
Minister.

 (4) A producer of a regulated non‑consumer product who, without
reasonable excuse —

(a) contravenes subsection (1)(b); or

(b) refuses or fails to comply with the Agency’s direction
     under subsection (2),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000.

 (5) It is a defence to a prosecution for an offence under
subsection (4)(a) or (b) if it is proved, on a balance of
probabilities, that the accused reasonably believed that the accused
is not the producer of the regulated non‑consumer product.

 (6) A producer of a regulated non‑consumer product commits an
offence if the producer disposes of any regulated non‑consumer
product collected under this section other than by presenting it to, or
by depositing it at a place directed or designated by, any of the
following persons:

(a) a licensed waste collector;

(b) a licensed e‑waste recycler.

 (7) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (6), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the accused knew that —

(a) the thing disposed of is a regulated non‑consumer product
     collected under this section;

(b) the person to whom the thing was presented is not a
     licensed waste collector or licensed e‑waste recycler; or

          (c) the place at which the thing was deposited was not directed
              or designated by a licensed waste collector or licensed
              e‑waste recycler.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
15  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

 (8) A producer of a regulated non‑consumer product who is guilty
of an offence under subsection (6) shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $10,000.

       Division 4 — Retailers of regulated consumer products

Retailers must collect and dispose of unwanted products

 14.—(1) Where a retailer —

       (a) supplies a regulated consumer product (called in this
            section the supplied product) to a consumer; and

       (b) in the course of such supply, delivers, or causes the
            delivery of, the supplied product to any premises specified
            by the consumer,

the consumer may require the retailer to collect from the premises,
and dispose of, another regulated consumer product (called in this
section the unwanted product) that is of the same class or type as the
supplied product according to the classification in section 12(2)(a).

 (2) If a person requires a retailer to collect and dispose of an
unwanted product under subsection (1), the retailer —

       (a) must, at the time of the delivery or such other time as may
            be agreed between the person and the retailer, collect the
            unwanted product from the premises mentioned in
            subsection (1); and

       (b) must not demand or require the person to pay any
            consideration for the collection and disposal of the
            unwanted product (such as the cost of any labour or
            transport).

 (3) A retailer who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

 (4) A retailer commits an offence if the retailer disposes of any
unwanted product collected under this section other than by
presenting it to, or by depositing it at a place directed or
designated by, a person operating a licensed scheme.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          16

 (5) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (4), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the accused knew that —

(a) the thing disposed of is an unwanted product collected
     under this section;

(b) the person to whom the thing was presented is not a person
     operating a licensed scheme; or

          (c) the place at which the thing was deposited was not directed
              or designated by a person operating a licensed scheme.

 (6) A retailer who is guilty of an offence under subsection (4) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

Large retailers must offer in-store collection of certain e-waste

 15.—(1) This section applies only in relation to —

       (a) regulated consumer products that are prescribed as
            designated regulated consumer products for the purposes
            of this section; and

       (b) a retailer who owns or occupies any premises with a floor
            area of or more than 300 sqm (or such other area prescribed
            in substitution), from which any designated regulated
            consumer product is supplied.

 (2) Where —

       (a) a designated regulated consumer product is brought to a
            retailer’s premises for disposal; and

       (b) the designated regulated consumer product is of the same
            class or type of consumer product as that supplied at those
            premises according to the classification in section 12(2)(a),

the retailer must accept the designated regulated consumer product
for disposal.

 (3) A retailer who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

 (4) A retailer commits an offence if the retailer disposes of any
designated regulated consumer product collected under this section

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
17  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

other than by presenting it to, or by depositing it at a place directed or
designated by, a person operating a licensed scheme.

 (5) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (4), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the accused knew that —

    (a) the thing disposed of is a designated regulated consumer
         product collected under this section;

    (b) the person to whom the thing was presented is not a person
         operating a licensed scheme; or

    (c) the place at which the thing was deposited was not directed
        or designated by a person operating a licensed scheme.

 (6) A retailer who is guilty of an offence under subsection (4) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

                        Division 5 — Miscellaneous

Restriction of public collection of e‑waste

 16.—(1) Except where otherwise authorised by this Act and despite
section 31 of the Environmental Public Health Act 1987, a person,
other than an individual, must not, whether or not for reward, provide
a receptacle in a public place, or a service to the public, for the
collection of any regulated product for disposal unless the person is
doing so —

       (a) in the course of operating a licensed scheme; or

       (b) in accordance with the written approval of the Agency.

 (2) The Agency may impose conditions (including conditions
subsequent) in its written approval mentioned in subsection (1)(b).

 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to —

       (a) the placement by a person of a receptacle in a public place
            for the collection of any regulated product for disposal
            where the person does so for or on behalf of a person
            referred to in subsection (1)(a) or (b); or

       (b) the collection of any regulated product for disposal as
            waste by a licensed waste collector where the collection of
            the regulated product is —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          18

          (i) incidental to the licensed waste collector’s collection
              of general waste; or

          (ii) carried out for or on behalf of a person mentioned in
               subsection (1)(a) or (b).

 (4) A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

Proper disposal of regulated products

 17.—(1) Except where section 13, 14 or 15 applies, a person, other
than an individual, commits an offence if the person disposes of a
regulated product other than by presenting it to, or by depositing it at
a place directed or designated by, an approved person.

 (2) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (1), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the accused knew that —

       (a) the thing disposed of is a regulated product;

       (b) the person to whom the thing was presented is not an
            approved person; or

       (c) the place at which the thing was deposited was not directed
            or designated by an approved person.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

 (4) In this section, “approved person” means any of the following
persons:

       (a) a person operating a licensed scheme;

       (b) a licensed waste collector or licensed e‑waste recycler;

       (c) a person referred to in section 16(1)(b).

Keeping of records

 18.—(1) A registered producer of any regulated product must keep
and maintain complete and accurate records of —

       (a) the weight and number of all regulated products the
            producer has supplied in Singapore; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
19  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

    (b) if the registered producer supplies regulated non‑consumer
         products, the weight and number of all regulated
         non‑consumer products the producer has collected under
         section 13 and how the regulated non‑consumer products
         are handled or disposed of (as waste or otherwise).

(2) A registered producer mentioned in subsection (1) must —

    (a) retain the records mentioned in subsection (1) for the
         prescribed period or longer;

    (b) during the prescribed period, make available for inspection
         by any authorised officer, the records mentioned in
         subsection (1) when so requested by any authorised
         officer; and

    (c) give to the Agency the records mentioned in
        subsection (1), and such other record, document or
        information relevant to monitoring or evaluating
        compliance with this Act as the Agency may require, in
        the time specified by the Agency.

 (3) A registered producer who contravenes subsection (1) or (2)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
         term not exceeding 3 months or to both; and

    (b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
         exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
         which the offence continues after conviction.

 (4) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (3), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

(5) The offence under subsection (3) is a strict liability offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          20

                             PART 4

          REPORTING IN RELATION TO PACKAGING

Interpretation of this Part

19.—(1) In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

“franchise” means a written agreement or arrangement between
   2 or more persons by which —

          (a) a party (called in this definition the franchisor) to the
               agreement or arrangement authorises or permits
               another party (called in this definition the
               franchisee), or a person associated with the
               franchisee, to exercise the right to engage in the
               business of offering, selling or distributing goods or
               services in Singapore under a plan or system
               controlled by the franchisor or a person associated
               with the franchisor;

          (b) the business carried on by the franchisee or the
               person associated with the franchisee (as the case
               may be) is capable of being identified by the public as
               being substantially associated with a trade or service
               mark, logo, symbol or name identifying, commonly
               connected with or controlled by the franchisor or a
               person associated with the franchisor; and

          (c) the franchisor exerts, or has authority to exert, a
              significant degree of control over the method or
              manner of operation of the franchisee’s business;

“franchisee” is the person described in the definition of
   “franchise” as the franchisee;

“franchisor” is the person described in the definition of
   “franchise” as the franchisor;

“goods” includes raw or processed products or goods;

“packaging” means any material or combination of materials
   used for the containment, protection, handling, delivery or
   presentation of any goods, but does not include any material
   that remains in the possession of a producer of specified

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
21  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

    packaging to be re‑used for the containment, protection,
    handling, delivery or presentation of any goods;

    “prescribed threshold criteria”, in relation to a producer, means
       all or any of the following criteria, as may be prescribed:

    (a) the annual turnover of the producer;

    (b) the quantity of specified packaging imported or used
         by the producer;

    “regulated goods” means any goods other than goods prescribed
       as excluded from this definition;

    “specified packaging” means any packaging other than any type
       of packaging prescribed as excluded from this definition;

    “supply”, in relation to any regulated goods, includes —

    (a) the supply of the regulated goods by way of sale
         (including by barter or exchange), lease, loan, hire or
         hire‑purchase;

    (b) the supply of the regulated goods by retail or by
         wholesale;

    (c) the supply of the regulated goods in connection with
        any agreement; and

    (d) the offer to supply the regulated goods or exposure of
         the regulated goods for supply.

 (2) In this Part, “producer”, in relation to any specified packaging,
means a person (A) who carries on a business of supplying regulated
goods in Singapore and in furtherance of that business —

    (a) imports specified packaging by importing regulated goods
         that have been packed into or with, or wrapped with,
         specified packaging; or

    (b) uses specified packaging —

    (i) by packing the regulated goods into or with specified
        packaging or wrapping the regulated goods with
        specified packaging;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          22

          (ii) by engaging another person to do anything
               mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i) for or on behalf of
               A or otherwise causing anything mentioned in
               sub‑paragraph (i);

          (iii) where A supplies the regulated goods to a retailer, by
                providing specified packaging to the retailer that A
                requires the retailer to use in connection with the
                retailer’s supply of the regulated goods; or

          (iv) where A is a retailer, by providing the specified
               packaging to a consumer who purchases regulated
               goods from A, to enable the consumer to put the
               regulated goods into the specified packaging,

but does not include a person who does anything mentioned in
paragraph (b)(i) for or on behalf of a Singapore‑connected person, or
the retailer mentioned in paragraph (b)(iii).

Reporting of specified packaging imported or used

 20.—(1) A producer of any specified packaging who fulfils the
prescribed threshold criteria in any year (T) must, in year T + 2,
submit to the Agency a report relating to the specified packaging that
is imported or used in year T + 1.

 (2) Where a producer is the franchisor of a franchise —

       (a) the annual turnover of, or the quantity of specified
            packaging imported or used by, all franchisees of the
            franchise is to be included for the purposes of determining
            whether the franchisor fulfils the prescribed threshold
            criteria; and

       (b) any reference in this Part to specified packaging imported
            or used by the franchisor includes a reference to specified
            packaging imported or used by all the franchisees of the
            franchise.

 (3) Where (but for this subsection) a producer is required to submit
a report under subsection (1), and —

       (a) the producer is a franchisee of a franchise; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
23  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

    (b) the franchisor of the franchise is a Singapore‑connected
         person,

then subsection (1) does not apply to the franchisee.

 (4) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable —

    (a) on the first conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

    (b) on a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not
         exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 3 months or to both and, in the case of a
         continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000
         for every day or part of a day during which the offence
         continues after that second or subsequent conviction.

 (5) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (4), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

(6) The offence under subsection (4) is a strict liability offence.

Submission of 3R plan

 21.—(1) A producer required by section 20 to submit a report under
that section must also submit to the Agency a plan to reduce, re‑use or
recycle packaging in Singapore (whether or not the packaging is
imported or used by the producer).

 (2) Without affecting section 52, a plan to reduce, re‑use or recycle
packaging under subsection (1) must include information on the
implementation of any part of the plan.

 (3) A producer who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable —

       (a) on the first conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

       (b) on a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not
            exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 3 months or to both and, in the case of a
            continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000
            for every day or part of a day during which the offence
            continues after that second or subsequent conviction.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                           24

 (4) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (3), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

(5) The offence under subsection (3) is a strict liability offence.

Requirements for reports and plans

 22.—(1) A requirement to submit a report or a plan under this Part
to the Agency is a requirement to do so in accordance with any
requirements prescribed under section 52 for the report or plan,
including its preparation and submission.

 (2) The Agency may, in respect of any incomplete or inaccurate
report or plan submitted by a person, in writing direct the person to do
the following within the time period specified in the direction (or such
longer time as the Agency may allow in any particular case):

       (a) to rectify or re‑compute any matter in the report or plan as
            the Agency may require;

       (b) to resubmit the report or plan to the Agency,

and the person must comply with the direction.

 (3) A person who fails to comply with a direction under
subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable —

       (a) on the first conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

       (b) on a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not
            exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 3 months or to both and, in the case of a
            continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000
            for every day or part of a day during which the offence
            continues after that second or subsequent conviction.

 (4) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (3), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

 (5) The offence under subsection (3) is a strict liability offence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
25  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

Keeping of records

 23.—(1) A producer of specified packaging who is required under
this Part to submit any report or plan to the Agency must keep and
maintain complete and accurate records containing such information,
and in accordance with such other requirements, as may be prescribed
under section 52, relating to —

    (a) those reports and plans, including the preparation and
         submission of the reports and plans; and

    (b) monitoring and evaluation undertaken by the person to
         ensure compliance with this Act.

(2) The producer mentioned in subsection (1) must —

    (a) retain the records mentioned in subsection (1) for the
         prescribed period or longer;

    (b) during the prescribed period mentioned in paragraph (a),
         make available for inspection by any authorised officer, the
         records mentioned in subsection (1) when so requested by
         the authorised officer; and

    (c) submit to the Agency the records mentioned in
        subsection (1) in the time specified by the Agency.

 (3) A producer who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable —

    (a) on the first conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

    (b) on a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not
         exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 3 months or to both and, in the case of a
         continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000
         for every day or part of a day during which the offence
         continues after that second or subsequent conviction.

 (4) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (3), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

(5) The offence under subsection (3) is a strict liability offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          26

          PART 4A

          DISPOSABLE CARRIER BAG CHARGE

                                                                    [Act 14 of 2023 wef 26/05/2023]

                        Division 1 — Interpretation

Interpretation of this Part

 23A. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “annual turnover”, in relation to a regulated retailer, means the
         gross revenue received by the regulated retailer in respect of
         the regulated retailer’s trade or business in Singapore in a
         year, whether in relation to the supply of goods or otherwise,
         determined in the prescribed manner;

      “customer” means any person who purchases or intends to
         purchase any goods from a regulated retailer;

      “disposable carrier bag” means packaging (within the meaning
         of section 19(1)) in the form of a bag with handles (other than
         a reusable bag) that is provided by a retailer in relation to
         goods purchased from the retailer by a customer —

              (a) to pack the goods for the customer or enable the
                   customer to put the goods into the bag; and

              (b) by which the goods may be carried or otherwise
                   transported after the point of sale (whether or not the
                   bag is in fact so used by the customer);

      “prescribed amount” means $0.05 or another amount prescribed
         in substitution;

      “prescribed annual turnover”, in relation to a class of regulated
         retailers, means the prescribed annual turnover for that class
         of regulated retailers;

      “registered retailer” means a regulated retailer who is registered
         under section 23C(3);

      “regulated retailer” means a retailer who belongs to a class of
         retailers prescribed as regulated retailers for the purposes of
         this Part;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
27  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

    “reportable year”, in relation to a person, means any year at any
       time during which the person is a registered retailer;

    “retailer” means a person who carries on a trade or business of
       supplying goods by retail;

    “reusable bag” means any bag with handles that —

    (a) is made primarily of any fabric woven with natural,
         semi-synthetic or synthetic fibres that is washable;

    (b) is made primarily of plastic or other material made of
         semi-synthetic or synthetic polymers, of a prescribed
         minimum thickness or density;

    (c) has the ability to hold a prescribed minimum weight;
        or

    (d) is prescribed, according to the material, intended
         function, properties or dimensions of the bag, as a
         reusable bag.

                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 26/05/2023]

                  Division 2 — Registration of retailers

Obligation to apply for registration

 23B.—(1) A regulated retailer (X) who has an annual turnover for
any trigger year that exceeds the prescribed annual turnover for the
class of regulated retailers to which X belongs must, unless X is
already a registered retailer for that class of regulated retailers, apply
to the Agency before the applicable date in section 23C(1)(a) for that
trigger year to be registered as a registered retailer for that class of
regulated retailers.

 (2) A regulated retailer who contravenes subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months or to both.

 (3) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (2), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

 (4) The offence under subsection (2) is a strict liability offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          28

(5) In this section and section 23C, a trigger year is —

(a) 2021 or a subsequent year; or

(b) in the case of a regulated retailer who has been deregistered
     pursuant to an application under section 23D — any year
     from (and including) the year in which the regulated
     retailer is deregistered.

                                                                    [Act 14 of 2023 wef 26/05/2023]

Applications for registration

 23C.—(1) An application for registration under section 23B
must —

       (a) be made before —

               (i) where the trigger year (T) is 2021 — the prescribed
                   date; and

              (ii) where year T is 2022 or a subsequent year —30 June
                   of year T + 1;

       (b) identify the regulated retailer in question;

       (c) contain any information prescribed for assessing
            applications made under this section, and any other
            information required by the Agency to assess the
            particular application; and

       (d) be in the form and manner required by the Agency.

 (2) The Agency may refuse to accept any application that is
incomplete or not made in accordance with subsection (1).

 (3) Where the Agency grants an application for registration, the
registration of the regulated retailer concerned begins on —

       (a) where year T is 2021 — the prescribed date; and

       (b) where year T is 2022 or a subsequent year — 1 January of
            year T + 2,

and continues until deregistration pursuant to an application under
section 23D.

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 26/05/2023]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
29  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

Entitlement to apply to deregister as registered retailer

 23D.—(1) A registered retailer may apply to the Agency to be
deregistered in respect of a class of regulated retailers for which the
registered retailer is registered if —

    (a) the registered retailer ceases to be a regulated retailer of
         that class; or

    (b) the annual turnover of the registered retailer for each of
         3 consecutive years does not exceed the prescribed annual
         turnover for that class.

 (2) A registered retailer must give the Agency written notice of the
date of the cessation mentioned in subsection (1)(a), at least 30 days
before that date.

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 26/05/2023]

Applications for deregistration

 23E.—(1) An application for deregistration under section 23D
must —

       (a) identify the registered retailer in question;

       (b) contain any information prescribed for assessing
            applications made under this section, and any other
            information required by the Agency to assess the
            particular application; and

       (c) be in the form and manner required by the Agency.

 (2) The Agency may refuse to accept any application that is
incomplete or not made in accordance with subsection (1).

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 26/05/2023]

           Division 3 — Charge for disposable carrier bags

Registered retailer must impose and collect charge for
disposable carrier bags

 23F.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), a registered retailer must
impose and collect a charge of an amount no less than the prescribed
amount for each disposable carrier bag that the registered retailer

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          30

provides to a customer who purchases any goods from the registered
retailer.

(2) Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to —

(a) a prescribed class, type or description of disposable carrier
     bags;

(b) a disposable carrier bag that is provided to a prescribed
     person or class of persons;

          (c) a disposable carrier bag that is provided in prescribed
              circumstances; or

(d) a prescribed registered retailer.

 (3) A registered retailer who contravenes subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months or to both.

 (4) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (3), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

(5) The offence under subsection (3) is a strict liability offence.

                                                                             [Act 14 of 2023 wef 26/05/2023]

Preventing circumvention of charge

 23G.—(1) A registered retailer must not provide any
reimbursement for a charge mentioned in section 23F(1), whether
in money or in kind.

 (2) A registered retailer who contravenes subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months or to both.

 (3) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (2), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

 (4) The offence under subsection (2) is a strict liability offence.

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 26/05/2023]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
31  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

Communication and recording of charge

23H.—(1) A registered retailer must —

    (a) inform the registered retailer’s customers of the charge
         imposed for the provision of each disposable carrier bag, in
         the manner prescribed; and

    (b) where a receipt is given to a customer, set out the charge
         mentioned in paragraph (a) as a separate item in the
         receipt.

 (2) A registered retailer who contravenes subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months or to both.

 (3) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (2), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

(4) The offence under subsection (2) is a strict liability offence.

                                                                             [Act 14 of 2023 wef 26/05/2023]

                        Division 4 — Miscellaneous

Submission of prescribed information

 23I.—(1) A person who is or was a registered retailer must submit
to the Agency, in relation to any reportable year, a report containing
the following information:

       (a) the number of disposable carrier bags provided to
            customers in the reportable year in respect of which the
            person is required under section 23F(1) to impose and
            collect a charge as a registered retailer;

       (b) any other prescribed information relevant to monitoring
            the person’s compliance with this Part.

 (2) A requirement to submit the report under subsection (1) is a
requirement to do so in accordance with any requirements prescribed
under section 52 for the report, including its preparation and
submission.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          32

 (3) The Agency may, in respect of any incomplete or inaccurate
report submitted by a person, in writing direct the person to do the
following within the time period specified in the direction (or any
longer time that the Agency may allow in any particular case):

(a) rectify or re‑compute any matter in the report as the
     Agency may require;

(b) resubmit the report to the Agency,

and the person must comply with the direction.

 (4) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or fails to comply with
a direction under subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable —

(a) on the first conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

(b) on a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not
     exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
     exceeding 3 months or to both and, in the case of a
     continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000
     for every day or part of a day during which the offence
     continues after that second or subsequent conviction.

 (5) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (4), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

(6) The offence under subsection (4) is a strict liability offence.

                                                                             [Act 14 of 2023 wef 26/05/2023]

Keeping of records

 23J.—(1) A person required to submit a report under section 23I(1)
must keep and maintain complete and accurate records of the
following:

       (a) the total amount of charge collected (including any amount
            collected in excess of the prescribed amount) by the person
            under section 23F for the provision of disposable carrier
            bags;

       (b) prescribed information relating to how and where the
            amount mentioned in paragraph (a) has been applied;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
33  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

    (c) any information or document relevant to the report.

(2) The person mentioned in subsection (1) must —

    (a) retain the records mentioned in subsection (1) for at least
         the prescribed period;

    (b) during the prescribed period mentioned in paragraph (a),
         make those records available for inspection by any
         authorised officer, when so requested by the authorised
         officer; and

    (c) submit to the Agency those records in the time specified by
        the Agency.

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable —

    (a) on the first conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

    (b) on a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not
         exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 3 months or to both and, in the case of a
         continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000
         for every day or part of a day during which the offence
         continues after that second or subsequent conviction.

 (4) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (3), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

(5) The offence under subsection (3) is a strict liability offence.

                                                                             [Act 14 of 2023 wef 26/05/2023]

Publication of information

 23K.—(1) A person who is or was a registered retailer must —

       (a) in accordance with this section, publish the information
            mentioned in sections 23I(1)(a) and 23J(1)(a) and (b) in
            relation to each reportable year of the person; and

       (b) cause the information mentioned in paragraph (a) to be
            audited before publication.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                           34

 (2) The information mentioned in subsection (1) must be
published —

(a) by 31 December of the year following the reportable year;
     and

(b) by at least one of the following means and for the period
     specified for such means:

          (i) made available for public access on a website
              operated by the person or a company in the same
              group as the person, for a continuous period of at
              least 12 months;

          (ii) printed and prominently displayed, for each of the
               person’s premises at which the charge mentioned in
               section 23F(1) must be imposed (if applicable), at a
               location at which the person posts or permits the
               posting of notices or that is at or near an entrance or
               exit of the premises, for a continuous period of at
               least 12 months;

          (iii) any other prescribed means and for the prescribed
                period.

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both.

 (4) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (3), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

(5) The offence under subsection (3) is a strict liability offence.

 (6) In this section, “group” has the meaning given by the
accounting standards made or formulated by the Accounting
Standards Committee under Part 3 of the Accounting Standards
Act 2007 and applicable to companies and foreign companies (within
the meaning of the Companies Act 1967) in respect of their
operations in Singapore for the purposes of the Companies Act 1967.

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 26/05/2023]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
35  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

Direction to rectify incomplete or inaccurate information

 23L.—(1) The Agency may, in respect of any incomplete or
inaccurate information published by a person under section 23K(1),
in writing direct the person to do the following within the time period
specified in the direction (or any longer time that the Agency may
allow in any particular case):

    (a) rectify or re‑compute any information as the Agency may
         require;

    (b) republish the information in accordance with
         section 23K(2)(b),

and the person must comply with the direction.

 (2) A person who fails to comply with a direction under
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable —

    (a) on the first conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

    (b) on a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not
         exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 3 months or to both and, in the case of a
         continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000
         for every day or part of a day during which the offence
         continues after that second or subsequent conviction.

 (3) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (2), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

(4) The offence under subsection (2) is a strict liability offence.

                                                                             [Act 14 of 2023 wef 26/05/2023]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          36

                             PART 4B

          BEVERAGE CONTAINER RETURN SCHEME

          Division 1 — General

Interpretation of this Part

23M.—(1) In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

“beverage container” means a container that is —

          (a) designed to contain a beverage and to be sealed
               (when filled with the beverage), before the beverage
               is sold or delivered for its use or consumption;

          (b) made of a prescribed material; and

          (c) of a prescribed volume or shape or prescribed
              dimensions;

“beverage product” means a regulated beverage that is in a
   sealed beverage container;

“deposit”, in relation to a beverage container, means the deposit
   for the beverage container, described in section 23Q;

“deposit mark” means the deposit mark mentioned in
   section 23N;

“manufacture”, in relation to a beverage product, means the act
   of filling a beverage container with a regulated beverage and
   sealing the container;

“offer to supply”, in relation to a beverage product, includes
   exposing or displaying the beverage product as an invitation
   to treat;

“regulated beverage” means any liquid beverage intended for
   human consumption by drinking, whether or not —

          (a) dilution of the liquid is recommended before
               consumption; or

          (b) containing solids,

          but does not include a liquid of a kind that is prescribed to be
          excluded;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
37  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

    “return point” means a facility or place at which a person may
       present an empty beverage container affixed with a deposit
       mark and barcode and receive the deposit for the empty
       beverage container accepted at the facility or place;

    “return point operator” means —

    (a) a scheme licensee who operates a return point;

    (b) a person required under section 23S(1) to operate a
         return point; or

    (c) a person who has entered into an arrangement with a
        scheme licensee to operate a return point;

    “scheme licensee” means a licensee of a producer responsibility
       scheme for beverage containers;

    “supply”, in relation to a beverage product, means the giving of
       the beverage product to another person for any purpose,
       whether or not for consideration in money or in kind, but does
       not include any such giving by an individual in the
       individual’s private or personal capacity.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), a person is the producer of a beverage
product if —

    (a) the person imports the beverage product into Singapore; or

    (b) the person manufactures the beverage product in Singapore
         or is engaged by another person to manufacture the
         beverage product for that other person.

(3) A person (A) is not a producer of a beverage product if —

    (a) A is an individual; and

    (b) A imports or manufactures the beverage product other than
         in the course of business.

                                                                        [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

Prescribed deposit mark

 23N. The Minister may prescribe any logo, marking or text, or any
combination thereof, as a deposit mark for the purpose of being
affixed on a beverage container so as to identify the beverage

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          38

container as one for which a deposit will be refunded upon acceptance
of the beverage container at a return point.

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

               Division 2 — Supply of beverage products

Producers must join licensed scheme

 23O.—(1) A producer of a beverage product must not supply, or
offer to supply, in Singapore any beverage product affixed with a
deposit mark unless the producer is a member of a licensed scheme
for beverage containers.

 (2) A producer who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

Beverage containers must display deposit mark and barcode

 23P.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), any person (including a
producer of a beverage product) must not, on or after the
prescribed date, supply or offer to supply in Singapore any
beverage product, unless the beverage container for the beverage
product is affixed with —

       (a) a deposit mark; and

       (b) a barcode by which the beverage product may be
            identified.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to —

       (a) any beverage product that is supplied to a prescribed
            person or class of persons;

       (b) any beverage product that is supplied in prescribed
            circumstances; or

       (c) any prescribed producer.

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
39  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both.

 (4) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (3), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

(5) The offence under subsection (3) is a strict liability offence.

                                                                             [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

Deposit for beverage product

 23Q.—(1) For the purpose of ensuring or otherwise encouraging
the return of beverage containers for recycling, there is to be a deposit
in respect of every beverage product affixed with a deposit mark, to
be provided for in accordance with this section and section 23R, and
which is refundable upon the acceptance of the beverage container of
the beverage product under section 23U.

 (2) The Minister may prescribe the amount of the deposit for the
purposes of this Part.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), for the purpose of providing for the
deposit, where a person (X) (including a producer) supplies any
beverage product affixed with a deposit mark to another person (Y), X
must collect from Y, and Y must give to X, the amount of the deposit
for the beverage product.

 (4) X may refuse to supply the beverage product to Y if Y refuses to
give to X the amount of the deposit for the beverage product, but X
may waive Y’s giving of the amount of the deposit to X.

 (5) Despite subsection (4), X must not waive Y’s giving of the
amount of the deposit to X if X receives any consideration in money
for the supply of the beverage product.

 (6) Where X waives Y’s giving of the amount of the deposit to X,
and Y receives the amount of the deposit from the person to whom Y
supplies the beverage product, Y must, despite the waiver, give the
amount of the deposit to X within the prescribed period after Y
supplies the beverage product.

 (7) A person who contravenes subsection (5) or (6) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          40

(a) on the first conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

(b) on a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not
     exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
     exceeding 3 months or to both.

 (8) To avoid doubt, no amount given to or collected by a person for
the purpose of providing for the deposit in respect of any beverage
product (whether under this section or section 23R) is to be construed
as forming any part of the price for the beverage product or for or for
the use of the beverage container thereof.

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

Producers must provide deposit to scheme licensee

 23R.—(1) A producer of a beverage product who supplies in
Singapore to any person any beverage product affixed with a deposit
mark, must provide the amount of the deposit in respect of the
beverage product to the scheme licensee of the licensed scheme for
beverage containers that the producer is a member of, within the time
requested by the scheme licensee (subject to any regulations made
under section 52 prescribing any other time for the provision).

 (2) Where a producer contravenes subsection (1), the Agency may,
by written notice served on the producer, direct the producer to stop
supplying any beverage product until the producer provides the
scheme licensee with the amount of unpaid deposits specified in the
written notice.

 (3) A producer who is aggrieved by any direction of the Agency
under subsection (2) may, within 14 days after being notified of the
direction, appeal to the Minister.

 (4) A producer who, without reasonable excuse —

       (a) contravenes subsection (1); or

       (b) refuses or fails to comply with the Agency’s direction
            under subsection (2),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months or to both.

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
41  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

    Division 3 — Return point operators

Provision of return points

 23S.—(1) A person prescribed for the purpose of this section must
operate a return point in accordance with any requirement prescribed
under section 52, unless the person is prohibited from operating a
return point under section 23T.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both.

 (3) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (2), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

(4) The offence under subsection (2) is a strict liability offence.

                                                                             [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

Prohibition against operating return points

 23T.—(1) The Agency may, by written order, prohibit any person
from operating a return point —

       (a) where the person has been convicted, whether in Singapore
            or elsewhere, of an offence involving fraud or dishonesty
            or the conviction for which involved a finding that the
            person acted fraudulently or dishonestly; or

       (b) where the Agency is satisfied that the person has —

               (i) contravened any provision of this Part; or

              (ii) knowingly claimed the deposit for any beverage
                   container in a case where no such deposit was
                   provided to the scheme licensee concerned.

 (2) Before issuing an order under subsection (1), the Agency
must —

       (a) give the person written notice of its intention to do so; and

       (b) in the notice mentioned in paragraph (a), call upon the
            person to show cause within the time specified in the notice

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          42

          why the person should not be prohibited from operating a
          return point.

 (3) If the person to whom notice has been given under
subsection (2) —

(a) fails to show cause within the time given to the person to
     do so or within any extended time that the Agency may
     allow; or

(b) fails to show sufficient cause,

the Agency must give written notice to the person of the date on
which the prohibition is to take effect and, before that date, inform the
scheme licensee of the issuance of an order under subsection (1).

 (4) A person who is aggrieved by a decision of the Agency under
subsection (1) may, within 30 days after the decision of the Agency,
appeal to the Minister.

 (5) Where the Agency has informed a scheme licensee of the
issuance of an order under subsection (1), the scheme licensee must
not provide any deposit or pay any fees to, or otherwise deal with, the
person who has been issued the order.

 (6) A person who fails to comply with an order of the Agency made
under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

 (7) A person who contravenes subsection (5) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both.

 (8) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (6) or (7), it is
not necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended
to commit the offence.

 (9) The offences under subsections (6) and (7) are strict liability
offences.

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
43  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

    Division 4 — Refunds of deposits

Refunds of deposits by return point operators

 23U.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), if a person presents an empty
beverage container affixed with a deposit mark and barcode required
under section 23P at a return point, the return point operator operating
the return point must accept the beverage container and refund the
deposit for the beverage container to the person.

(2) Subsection (1) does not apply —

    (a) if the deposit mark or barcode is so damaged that it cannot
         be read or scanned;

    (b) where there are operating hours specified at the return
         point for the return point — if the person presents the
         beverage container at the return point at any time other
         than during the operating hours;

    (c) if the return point operator reasonably believes that —

    (i) a deposit was not provided in respect of the beverage
        container to the scheme licensee concerned under
        section 23R(1); or

    (ii) the deposit for the beverage container was previously
         refunded at any return point; or

    (d) in any other prescribed circumstances.

 (3) A return point operator who, without reasonable excuse,
contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

                        Division 5 — Miscellaneous

Keeping of records

 23V.—(1) A producer of a beverage product must keep and
maintain complete and accurate records of —

       (a) the name, type, number of units, volume and form of each
            beverage product supplied by the producer;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          44

(b) the materials and weight of the beverage container used for
     each beverage product supplied by the producer; and

          (c) any other prescribed information.

(2) The producer mentioned in subsection (1) must —

(a) retain the records mentioned in subsection (1) for at least
     the prescribed period; and

(b) comply with a request made by an authorised officer
     during the prescribed period mentioned in paragraph (a) —

          (i) to make available for inspection by any authorised
              officer, the records mentioned in subsection (1); or

          (ii) to submit to the Agency the records mentioned in
               subsection (1) in the time specified in the request.

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable —

(a) on the first conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

(b) on a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not
     exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
     exceeding 3 months or to both and, in the case of a
     continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000
     for every day or part of a day during which the offence
     continues after that second or subsequent conviction.

 (4) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (3), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

(5) The offence under subsection (3) is a strict liability offence.

                                                                             [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

Producers must submit information to scheme licensee

 23W.—(1) A producer of a beverage product who is required under
section 23O to be a member of a licensed scheme for beverage
containers must provide the information mentioned in
section 23V(1)(a), (b) or (c) to the scheme licensee of the licensed
scheme that the producer is a member of, within the time requested by

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
45  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

the scheme licensee (subject to any regulations made under section 52
prescribing any other time for the provision).

 (2) A producer who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable —

    (a) on the first conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

    (b) on a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not
         exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 3 months or to both and, in the case of a
         continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000
         for every day or part of a day during which the offence
         continues after that second or subsequent conviction.

                                                                        [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

Unauthorised use of deposit mark

 23X.—(1) Unless authorised in writing by a scheme licensee, a
person must not affix a deposit mark on any container that is not a
beverage container.

 (2) A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

        PART 5
    FOOD WASTE

                [Act 14 of 2023 wef 08/03/2024]

                            Division 1 — General
Interpretation of this Part

 24.—(1) In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “building manager”, in relation to a prescribed building,
         means —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          46

          (a) where the prescribed building is occupied by only
               one person — the owner or occupier of the building;
               or

          (b) where the prescribed building is occupied by more
               than one person —

          (i) where the prescribed building is a subdivided
              building — the management corporation of the
              building; or

          (ii) where the prescribed building is not a
               subdivided building — the owner of the
               building or an agent of the owner who is
               responsible for maintaining the building;

“licensed waste disposal facility” means a disposal facility in
   respect of which there is a waste disposal licence under
   section 23(2) of the Environmental Public Health Act 1987
   for the treatment of food waste;

“management corporation” has the meaning given by
   section 3(1) of the Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967;

“prescribed building” means any building prescribed for the
   purposes of this Part;

“public disposal facility” means a disposal facility mentioned in
   section 22(1)(a) of the Environmental Public Health Act
   1987 that is for the treatment of food waste;

“relevant written permission”, in relation to a prescribed
   building, means a written permission that is granted under
   the Planning Act 1998 pursuant to an application made on or
   after the date prescribed for that prescribed building;

“subdivided building” has the meaning given by section 3(1) of
   the Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967.

(2) In this Part, food waste has been treated if —

(a) it has undergone a prescribed food waste treatment
     process; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
47  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

    (b) it has been treated using a prescribed food waste treatment
         system.

                                                                        [Act 14 of 2023 wef 08/03/2024]

Prescribed buildings

 25.—(1) The Minister may prescribe any building to be a
prescribed building for the purposes of this Part.

 (2) A prescription under subsection (1) may be specific or by way
of any class, type or description of buildings.

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 08/03/2024]

                  Division 2 — Food waste segregation

Occupiers of prescribed buildings to segregate food waste

 26.—(1) An occupier of a prescribed building, or a part of a
prescribed building, must, as from and including the date prescribed
for the building, in relation to any food waste generated by the
occupier in the prescribed building or within the premises on which
the prescribed building is situated —

       (a) segregate, in the prescribed building or within those
            premises, the food waste from any other type of waste; and

       (b) subject to section 27, dispose of the segregated food waste
            only at a facility mentioned in section 27A(1).

 (2) An occupier of a prescribed building, or a part of a prescribed
building, must not dispose of any type of waste other than food waste
at a facility mentioned in section 27A(1).

 (3) A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 08/03/2024]

Approved alternative food waste disposal or treatment
arrangements

 27.—(1) Despite section 26(1)(b), the occupier of a prescribed
building or any part of a prescribed building may, with the written
approval of the Agency —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          48

(a) treat the segregated food waste in the prescribed building
     or within the premises on which the prescribed building is
     situated; or

(b) engage a licensed waste collector to send the segregated
     food waste for treatment at —

          (i) a licensed waste disposal facility; or

          (ii) a public disposal facility.

 (2) An occupier who has obtained a written approval under
subsection (1) must, for the period that the written approval is
valid, treat the food waste or send the food waste for treatment in the
manner approved.

 (3) The Agency may revoke an approval mentioned in
subsection (1) granted to an occupier, after giving the occupier
prior written notice within any period that may be prescribed, of the
Agency’s intention to do so.

 (4) Where the Agency grants or revokes any written approval under
subsection (1) or (3), the Agency must notify the building manager of
the prescribed building concerned of the grant or revocation.

 (5) An occupier who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

(a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 3 months or to both; and

(b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
     exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
     which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                    [Act 14 of 2023 wef 08/03/2024]

Provision of segregated waste disposal facilities

 27A.—(1) The building manager of a prescribed building must
provide, in the prescribed building or within the premises on which
the prescribed building is situated, one or more facilities to enable
occupiers of the prescribed building or any part of the prescribed
building to segregate and dispose of food waste separately from any
other type of waste.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
49  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

 (2) A building manager who contravenes subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
         term not exceeding 3 months or to both; and

    (b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
         exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
         which the offence continues after conviction.

 (3) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (2), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

(4) The offence under subsection (2) is a strict liability offence.

                                                                             [Act 14 of 2023 wef 08/03/2024]

Treatment of food waste

 27B.—(1) The building manager of a prescribed building must, in
relation to any food waste disposed of at a facility mentioned in
section 27A(1) —

       (a) where the prescribed building is erected pursuant to a
            relevant written permission — treat the food waste, or
            cause the food waste to be treated, in the prescribed
            building or within the premises on which the prescribed
            building is situated, unless the building manager obtains
            prior written permission from the Agency for the food
            waste to be treated at a licensed waste disposal facility or
            public disposal facility; and

       (b) where the prescribed building is not erected pursuant to a
            relevant written permission — treat the food waste, or
            cause the food waste to be treated, in the prescribed
            building or within the premises on which the prescribed
            building is situated, or at a licensed waste disposal facility
            or public disposal facility.

 (2) In determining whether a building manager should be granted
permission under subsection (1)(a) to treat food waste at a licensed
waste disposal facility or public disposal facility, the Agency is to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          50

have regard, and give such weight as the Agency considers
appropriate, to such matters as may be prescribed for this subsection.

 (3) A building manager who contravenes subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3
months or to both.

 (4) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (3), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

(5) The offence under subsection (3) is a strict liability offence.

                                                                             [Act 14 of 2023 wef 08/03/2024]

                   Division 3 — Food waste reporting

Reporting of food waste treated

 27C.—(1) A person must submit to the Agency, in relation to each
year or part of a year for which the person is or was a building
manager of a prescribed building (each such year or part of a year
called in this section a reportable period of the building manager), a
report containing the following information:

       (a) the amount of food waste treated pursuant to
            sections 27(1)(a) or (b) and 27B(1)(a) or (b) in that
            reportable period of the building manager;

       (b) of the amount of the food waste so treated in that period —

               (i) the amount that is treated in the prescribed building
                   or within the premises on which the prescribed
                   building is situated; and

              (ii) the amount that is treated at a licensed waste disposal
                   facility or public disposal facility;

       (c) any other prescribed information relating to the food waste
            so treated in that period.

 (2) A person given an approval under section 27(1) by the Agency
must, in respect of the time during which the person is an occupier of
the prescribed building or any part of the prescribed building, submit
to the building manager a report containing the following information

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
51  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

in relation to the food waste treated or caused to be treated by the
person as such occupier under the approval:

    (a) the amount of food waste so treated;

    (b) of the amount of the food waste so treated in that period —

    (i) the amount that is treated in the prescribed building
        or within the premises on which the prescribed
        building is situated; and

    (ii) the amount that is treated at a licensed waste disposal
         facility or public disposal facility;

    (c) any other prescribed information relating to the food waste
        so treated in that period.

 (3) A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction —

    (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
         term not exceeding 3 months or to both; and

    (b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
         exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
         which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                        [Act 14 of 2023 wef 08/03/2024]

Requirements for reports

 27D.—(1) A requirement to submit a report under this Part to the
Agency or a building manager is a requirement to do so in accordance
with any requirements prescribed under section 52 for the report,
including its preparation and submission.

 (2) The Agency may, in respect of any incomplete or inaccurate
report submitted by a person, in writing direct the person to do the
following within the time period specified in the direction (or any
longer time that the Agency may allow in any particular case):

       (a) rectify or re-compute any matter in the report as the
            Agency may require;

       (b) resubmit the report to the Agency,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          52

and the person must comply with the direction.

 (3) A person who fails to comply with a direction under
subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable —

(a) on the first conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

(b) on a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not
     exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
     exceeding 3 months or to both and, in the case of a
     continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000
     for every day or part of a day during which the offence
     continues after that second or subsequent conviction.

 (4) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (3), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

(5) The offence under subsection (3) is a strict liability offence.

                                                                             [Act 14 of 2023 wef 08/03/2024]

Keeping of records

 27E.—(1) A person who is required under this Part to submit any
report to the Agency or a building manager, must keep and maintain
complete and accurate records containing such information and
documents, and in accordance with such other requirements, as may
be prescribed under section 52, relating to —

       (a) that report, including the preparation and submission of the
            report; and

       (b) monitoring and evaluation undertaken by the person to
            ensure compliance with this Act.

 (2) The person mentioned in subsection (1) must —

       (a) retain the records mentioned in subsection (1) for at least
            the prescribed period;

       (b) during the prescribed period mentioned in paragraph (a),
            make those records available for inspection by any
            authorised officer, when so requested by the authorised
            officer; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
53  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

    (c) submit to the Agency those records in the time specified by
        the Agency.

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable —

    (a) on the first conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

    (b) on a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not
         exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 3 months or to both and, in the case of a
         continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000
         for every day or part of a day during which the offence
         continues after that second or subsequent conviction.

 (4) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (3), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

(5) The offence under subsection (3) is a strict liability offence.

                                                                             [Act 14 of 2023 wef 08/03/2024]

                                    PART 6

             PRODUCER RESPONSIBILITY SCHEMES

Licence required to operate producer responsibility scheme

 28.—(1) A person must not operate, or advertise or otherwise hold
out that the person is operating, a producer responsibility scheme
unless the person is authorised to do so by a licence under this Part.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both.

 (3) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (2), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

 (4) The offence under subsection (2) is a strict liability offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          54

Producer responsibility scheme licence

 29.—(1) An application for a licence to operate a producer
responsibility scheme must be made to the Agency in the form and
manner the Agency requires.

 (2) After considering an application for the grant of a licence, the
Agency may —

(a) grant the licence for such duration as the Agency may
     specify in the licence; or

(b) refuse the application.

 (3) The Minister may from time to time, by notification in the
Gazette, prescribe a limit on the number of licences to be granted by
the Agency under subsection (2) for a type of specified waste.

 (4) A person who is to be granted a licence may be selected by the
Agency from among those who submit tenders in response to an
invitation to tender for the right to operate a producer responsibility
scheme under that licence.

 (5) Any invitation to tender under this section must specify that an
applicant who tenders for a licence must state the amount (by
reference to quantity or method or otherwise) that the applicant will
charge members of the producer responsibility scheme if the
applicant is granted a licence.

Requirements relating to key appointment holders

 29A.—(1) The Minister may, by regulations made under
section 52 —

       (a) subject to subsection (2), prescribe requirements relating to
            persons appointed as a licensee’s key appointment holders;
            and

       (b) require a licensee to obtain the Agency’s approval for the
            appointment of a key appointment holder in relation to
            whom any requirement mentioned in paragraph (a) is
            imposed.

 (2) The requirements mentioned in subsection (1)(a) must not be
imposed in relation to more than one-third of the number of persons

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
55  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

(rounded up to the next whole number) appointed as the licensee’s
key appointment holders.

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

Licence conditions

 30.—(1) A licence is subject to such conditions as the Agency may
specify.

 (2) The conditions may include the following:

       (a) requirements relating to the fees payable by members of
            the producer responsibility scheme;

       (b) requirements relating to the waste collection operations of
            the licensee, to ensure comprehensive and regular
            collection, removal and transport of waste;

       (c) minimum specified waste collection amounts;

       (d) requirements to conduct programmes or events to educate
            the public on waste management and resource
            sustainability.

 (3) The Agency may, at any time, modify the conditions of a licence
in accordance with this section.

 (4) Before modifying any conditions of a licence, the Agency must
give notice to the licensee concerned —

       (a) stating that the Agency proposes to make the modification
            in the manner as specified in the notice; and

       (b) specifying the time within which the licensee may make
            written representations to the Agency with respect to the
            proposed modification.

 (5) The time specified by the Agency in the notice given under
subsection (4) must not be less than 14 days after the date of the
notice.

 (6) A licensee who is aggrieved by the Agency’s decision to modify
a licence condition may, within 14 days after receiving notice of the
Agency’s decision, appeal to the Minister.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          56

 (7) In this section, “modification” and “modify”, in relation to the
conditions of a licence, include deleting or varying and substituting a
condition, and adding a condition.

Revocation of licence

 31.—(1) The Agency may, at any time, revoke a licence if the
licensee —

       (a) provides or causes to be provided to the Agency any
            information (including information in connection with the
            application for a licence) that is false or misleading in any
            material particular;

       (b) contravenes any provision of this Part;

       (c) contravenes any condition of the licence; or

       (d) ceases to be, in the opinion of the Agency, a fit and proper
            person to hold a licence.

 (2) The Agency must, before revoking a licence under
subsection (1), give the licensee a written notice of its intention to
do so and an opportunity to submit reasons, within such period as the
Agency may specify in that notice, as to why the licence should not be
revoked.

 (3) A licensee who is aggrieved by the Agency’s decision to revoke
the licence may, within 14 days after receiving notice of the Agency’s
decision, appeal to the Minister.

 (4) Any decision of the Agency to revoke a licence does not take
effect until —

       (a) the expiry of the period allowed under subsection (3) for
            the licensee to appeal to the Minister against the decision;
            or

       (b) the determination or rejection of the appeal by the Minister
            or his or her designate under section 45,

whichever is the later.

 (5) The Agency may cancel a licence at the request of the licensee.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
57                 Resource Sustainability Act 2019           2020 Ed.

Financial penalty

32.—(1) This section applies where a licensee —

    (a) contravenes a provision of this Part, which contravention is
         not an offence under this Act; or

    (b) fails to comply with any condition imposed by the Agency
         on the licence.

 (2) On the occurrence of a contravention or failure to comply
mentioned in subsection (1) (except one mentioned in
subsection (2A)), the Agency may, in addition to or instead of
taking any action under section 31(1), order the licensee to pay a
financial penalty of an amount not exceeding $10,000 for each
contravention or failure to comply, but not exceeding in the aggregate
$50,000, by the date specified in the order.

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

 (2A) Where a licensee of a licensed scheme for beverage containers
mentioned in section 23O fails to comply with a licence condition
relating to minimum specified waste collection amounts, the Agency
may, in addition to or instead of taking any action under section 31(1),
order the licensee to pay a financial penalty of an amount not
exceeding $500,000, by the date specified in the order.

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

 (3) The Agency must, before making an order under subsection (2)
or (2A), give the licensee a written notice of its intention to do so and
an opportunity to submit reasons, within such period as the Agency
may specify in that notice, as to why the order should not be made.

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

 (4) A licensee who is aggrieved by the Agency’s decision to make
an order under subsection (2) or (2A) may, within 14 days after
receiving notice of the Agency’s decision, appeal to the Minister.

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

 (5) Where an appeal is made to the Minister within the period
mentioned in subsection (4), the order mentioned in subsection (2) or
(2A) does not take effect unless —

    (a) the appeal is for any reason dismissed by the Minister; or

    (b) the appellant withdraws the appeal.

                                                                        [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          58

 (6) The Agency must, in determining the amount of a financial
penalty imposed under subsection (2) or (2A), have regard, and give
such weight as the Agency considers appropriate, to all of the
following matters:

(a) the nature, gravity and duration of the non-compliance by
     the licensee;

(b) whether the licensee, as a result of the non-compliance,
     gained any financial benefit or avoided any financial loss;

          (c) whether the licensee took any action to mitigate the effects
              and consequences of the non-compliance, and the
              timeliness and effectiveness of that action;

(d) whether the licensee had, despite the non-compliance,
     implemented adequate and appropriate measures for
     compliance with the requirements under this Part;

          (e) whether the licensee had previously failed to comply with
              the provisions of this Part or any condition of the licence;

          (f) whether the financial penalty to be imposed is
              proportionate and effective, having regard to achieving
              compliance and deterring non-compliance with the
              provisions of this Part or any condition of the licence;

(g) the likely impact of the imposition of the financial penalty
     on the licensee, including the ability of the licensee to
     continue with its usual activities;

       (h) any other matter that may be relevant.

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

 (7) In this section, a reference to “this Part” includes a reference to
any regulations made under section 52 that apply to a person issued a
licence to operate a producer responsibility scheme granted under
section 29(2).

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

Recovery of financial penalties

 33.—(1) Any person who fails to pay a financial penalty by the date
the person is required to do so under this Act is liable to pay, after that

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
59  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

date, interest on the amount unpaid at the same rate as for a judgment
debt.

 (2) Any financial penalty and any interest on the financial penalty
payable by any person under this Act must be paid to the Agency and
is recoverable by the Agency as a debt due to the Agency from that
person; and the person’s liability to pay is not affected by the person’s
licence ceasing, for any reason, to be in force.

 (3) The Agency may, in any case it thinks fit, waive, remit or
refund, wholly or in part, any financial penalty or any interest on the
financial penalty payable under this Act.

 (4) All financial penalties and interest on the financial penalties
collected by the Agency under this Act must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

Keeping of records

 34.—(1) A licensee must keep and maintain complete and accurate
records of the following, in accordance with such requirements as
may be prescribed under section 52:

       (a) details of the licensee’s collection activities;

       (b) the quantity of specified waste the licensee has sent for
            treatment or recycling;

       (c) the fees charged to members of the producer responsibility
            scheme that the licensee operates.

 (2) A licensee must —

       (a) retain the records mentioned in subsection (1) for the
            prescribed period or longer;

       (b) during the prescribed period mentioned in paragraph (a),
            make available for inspection by any authorised officer, the
            records mentioned in that subsection when so requested by
            any authorised officer; and

       (c) submit to the Agency the records mentioned in
            subsection (1), and such other record, document or
            information relevant to monitoring or evaluating

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                           60

          compliance with this Act as the Agency may require, in the
          time or at such frequency, specified by the Agency.

 (3) A licensee who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 3 months or to both; and

(b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
     exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
     which the offence continues after conviction.

 (4) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (3), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

(5) The offence under subsection (3) is a strict liability offence.

Submission of annual report

 35. A licensee must submit an audited annual report on such
matters as may be prescribed relating to the operation of the producer
responsibility scheme in respect of which the licensee is licensed.

Disclosure of information

 36.—(1) A licensee or former licensee —

       (a) must not disclose any information received from the
            Agency under section 43(4)(c); and

       (b) must make reasonable security arrangements to prevent
            unauthorised access, collection, use, disclosure, copying,
            modification or disposal, of any information received from
            the Agency under section 43(4)(c).

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1)(a) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both.

 (3) In a prosecution for an offence under subsection (2), it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the defendant intended to
commit the offence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
61  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

(4) The offence under subsection (2) is a strict liability offence.

                                    PART 7

                              ENFORCEMENT

Entering non-residential premises, etc., to monitor compliance

 37. For the purposes of administering or enforcing this Act or
determining whether this Act has been complied with, an authorised
officer may, upon declaring his or her office and producing to an
occupier of any premises (other than any residential premises) such
identification card as the Agency may direct to be carried by
authorised officers, do all or any of the following:

       (a) enter the premises —

               (i) during normal business hours without notice; or

              (ii) at any other time after giving not less than 6 hours’
                   previous notice to the occupier of the premises
                   (unless the occupier has consented to a shorter period
                   of notice);

       (b) exercise any of the powers set out in sections 38, 39 and 40.

Powers of authorised officers in monitoring compliance

 38.—(1) An authorised officer may exercise all or any of the
following powers in relation to premises under section 37:

       (a) search the premises for any thing that may relate to
            compliance with this Act;

       (b) examine any activity conducted on the premises that may
            relate to information provided for the purposes of this Act;

       (c) examine any thing on the premises that may relate to
            information provided for the purposes of this Act;

       (d) take photographs or make video or audio recordings or
            sketches on the premises of any such activity or thing;

       (e) affix or bring onto the premises, with such assistants and
            workmen as may be necessary, any meter or instrument

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          62

          and take readings from the meter or instrument, or take
          readings from any meter or instrument on the premises;

          (f) inspect any document on the premises that may relate to
              information provided for the purposes of this Act;

(g) take extracts from, or make copies of, any such document;

(h) take onto the premises such equipment and materials as the
     authorised officer requires for the purpose of exercising
     powers in relation to the premises;

          (i) seize any thing found during the exercise of monitoring
              powers on the premises which the authorised officer
              believes on reasonable grounds affords evidence of a
              contravention of this Act.

 (2) An authorised officer may, in addition to the powers in
subsection (1) —

(a) compel any person who is able to operate any equipment at
     the premises to do so for the purpose of enabling the
     authorised officer to ascertain whether the equipment, or a
     disk, tape or other storage device that can be used or
     associated with the equipment, contains information that is
     relevant to assessing compliance with this Act; and

(b) if such information is found in exercise of the power in
     paragraph (a) —

          (i) produce, or compel the production of, the
              information in documentary form, and keep or
              copy the documents so produced; or

          (ii) transfer, or compel the transfer of, the information to
               a disk, tape or other storage device, and remove it
               from the premises.

Authorised officer may require persons to provide information
and produce documents

 39.—(1) For the purposes of administering or enforcing this Act or
determining whether this Act has been complied with, an authorised
officer may (in connection with section 38 or otherwise) —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
63  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

    (a) require any person to provide the authorised officer any
         information within the knowledge of that person; and

    (b) require any person to produce to the authorised officer any
         document in the person’s custody or under the person’s
         control in connection with the matter.

(2) The authorised officer may —

    (a) specify a time and place at which a person must provide the
         information or produce the document under subsection (1);
         and

    (b) without payment —

    (i) inspect, keep, copy or take extracts from a document
        produced or made available to the authorised officer
        under this section; and

    (ii) in relation to a document kept in electronic form,
         inspect, copy or take extracts from the document in
         legible form.

 (3) Where a document is kept in electronic form, the power of the
authorised officer to require the document to be produced includes
the power to require the document to be made available to the
authorised officer in legible form.

 (4) A person who, without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to
comply with a requirement under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable —

    (a) on the first conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

    (b) on a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not
         exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 3 months or to both and, in the case of a
         continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000
         for every day or part of a day during which the offence
         continues after conviction.

Power to demand names and addresses

 40.—(1) An authorised officer may require any person found on the
premises under section 37 to —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          64

(a) give the person’s name and address and such other proof of
     identity; and

(b) provide such other particulars,

as the authorised officer may require for the purposes of this Act.

 (2) A person commits an offence if the person, upon being required
by the authorised officer to give his or her name and address or other
proof of identity or to provide any particulars under subsection (1) —

(a) refuses to do so;

(b) wilfully misstates his or her name and address or proof of
     identity; or

          (c) provides false particulars.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (2) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

Penalty for obstructing authorised officer in his or her duty

 41. A person who at any time hinders or obstructs an authorised
officer in the performance or execution of his or her duty or of any
thing which the authorised officer is empowered or required to do
under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 3 months or to both; and

       (b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
            not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 3 months or to both.

                                    PART 8
                             MISCELLANEOUS
Giving false information
 42.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person makes a
statement or gives any information or document required to be made

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
65  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

or given under this Act that the person knows or ought reasonably to
know to be —

    (a) false in a material particular; or

    (b) misleading by reason of the omission of a material
         particular.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable —

    (a) on the first conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

    (b) on a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not
         exceeding $10,000.

Restriction on disclosure of confidential information

 43.—(1) This section applies if —

       (a) any information or document is given by a person to the
            Agency under this Act; and

       (b) at the time the information or document is given, the
            person giving it notifies the Agency in writing that it is of a
            confidential or commercially sensitive nature.

 (2) The Agency must not disclose to any person the information or
the contents of a document to which this section applies unless —

       (a) the Agency is of the opinion that —

               (i) the disclosure of the information or the contents of
                   the document would not cause detriment to the
                   person supplying it or to any other person who is
                   aware of the information or the contents of the
                   document; or

              (ii) although the disclosure of the information or the
                   contents of the document would cause detriment to
                   the person supplying it or to any other person who is
                   aware of the information or the contents of the
                   document, the public benefit in disclosing outweighs
                   that detriment;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          66

(b) the Agency gives written notice to —

          (i) the person who supplied the information or
              document; and

          (ii) any other person whom the Agency is aware has
               supplied the information or document to the person
               mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i), where the identity of
               such other person is known to the Agency,

(b) stating that the Agency wishes to disclose the information
     or contents of the document, specifying the nature of the
     intended disclosure and detailed reasons why the Agency
     wishes to make the disclosure and setting out a copy of this
     section; and

          (c) no appeal is made to the Minister under subsection (3)
              within 14 days after the date of the giving of the notice.

 (3) A person who is aggrieved by a notice under subsection (2)(b)
may appeal to the Minister within 14 days after the date of the giving
of the notice.

 (4) Subsection (2) does not prevent the Agency from disclosing any
information or the contents of any document —

(a) to any member, officer or employee of the Agency or any
     agent, consultant, committee or panel acting for or under
     the direction of the Agency;

(b) to the Minister or any agent, consultant, committee or
     panel acting for or under the direction of the Minister;

          (c) to the operator of a licensed scheme for the determination
              of the fees payable by members of the licensed scheme;

(d) when required to do so by any court or under this Act or
     any other written law; or

          (e) for the purposes of any criminal proceedings.

 (5) For the purposes of this section, the disclosure of any
information or the contents of a document already in the public
domain at the time the Agency wishes to disclose it cannot cause
detriment to any person mentioned in subsection (2)(a).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
67  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

Appeal to Minister

 44.—(1) Every appeal to the Minister under this Act must be made
in such form and manner as the Minister may require.

 (2) Despite any appeal made under this Act, the decision appealed
against takes effect and must be complied with unless otherwise
provided in this Act or ordered by the Minister.

 (3) The Minister may, after considering the appeal, dismiss or allow
the appeal, unconditionally or subject to such conditions as the
Minister thinks fit.

 (4) The Minister may, in considering an appeal under this section,
give the appellant an opportunity to make representations in writing.

(5) The Minister’s decision on any appeal is final.

Minister may designate others to hear appeals

 45.—(1) The Minister may designate any of the following persons
to hear and determine, in the Minister’s place, any appeal under this
Act:

       (a) the Second Minister (if any) for his or her Ministry;

       (b) a Minister of State (which includes a Senior Minister of
            State) for his or her Ministry;

       (c) a Parliamentary Secretary (which includes a Senior
            Parliamentary Secretary) assisting the Minister under this
            Part.

 (2) A reference to the Minister in section 44 includes a reference to
a person designated under subsection (1).

Offences by corporations

 46.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.   Resource Sustainability Act 2019                         68

(b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

(a) who is —

          (i) an officer of the corporation; or

          (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
               corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
               of the corporation in relation to the commission of
               the offence; and

(b) who —

          (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
              effect the commission of the offence;

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the offence by the corporation; or

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

(b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
     regarding the admissibility of evidence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
69  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

    “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
       meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
       Act 2005;

    “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
       partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
       officer of the corporation, and includes —

    (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

    (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
         members, any of those members as if the member
         were a director of the corporation;

    “state of mind” of a person includes —

    (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
         of the person; and

    (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
         or purpose.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 47.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.   Resource Sustainability Act 2019                         70

(a) who is —

          (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
              member of its governing body;

          (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

          (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                position to influence the conduct of the
                unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                offence; and

(b) who —

          (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
              effect the commission of the offence;

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the offence by the unincorporated
               association or partnership; or

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the unincorporated association or
                partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
71  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

    (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
         regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

    “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
       a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
       member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
       and includes —

    (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
         president, secretary or member of a committee of the
         unincorporated association; and

    (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

    “state of mind” of a person includes —

    (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
         of the person; and

    (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
         or purpose.

Service of documents, etc.

 48.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
            if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
            address or business address;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          72

          (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
              adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
              business address with an adult apparently employed there;

(d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
     at the individual’s residential address or business address;

          (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
              person giving or serving the document as the fax number
              for the service of documents on the individual; or

          (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
              address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

(a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer of the
     partnership;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the partnership’s business address;

          (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
              partnership’s business address; or

(d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
     address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

(a) by giving it to the body corporate’s secretary or other
     similar officer, or the limited liability partnership’s
     manager;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the body corporate’s registered office or principal office
     in Singapore;

          (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the body
              corporate’s registered office or principal office in
              Singapore; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
73  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

    (d) by sending it by email to the body corporate’s last email
         address.

(5) Service of a document under subsection (1) takes effect —

    (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
         successful transmission is received, on the day of
         transmission;

    (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
         becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
         it is sent; and

    (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
        after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
        undelivered).

 (6) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email may be effected only with the person’s prior consent to service
in that way.

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

(8) In this section —

    “business address” means —

    (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
         last known place of business in Singapore; or

    (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
         liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
         last known place of business in Singapore;

    “document” includes a notice or an order permitted or required
       by this Act to be served;

    “last email address” means —

    (a) the last email address given by the addressee
         concerned to the person giving or serving the
         document as the email address for the service of
         documents under this Act; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          74

          (b) the last email address of the addressee concerned
               known to the person giving or serving the document;

“residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
   place of residence in Singapore.

Composition of offences

 49.—(1) An authorised officer may compound any offence under
this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting
from a person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence
a sum not exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

Exemption

 50. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person
or any class of persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act,
subject to the conditions as may be specified in the order.

Amendment of Schedule

 51.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend the
Schedule.

 (2) The Minister may, in an order under subsection (1), make such
provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on the
enactment of the order as the Minister may consider necessary or
expedient.

 (3) All orders made under subsection (1) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
75           Resource Sustainability Act 2019                 2020 Ed.

Regulations

 52.—(1) The Minister may make regulations prescribing matters
required or permitted by this Act to be prescribed, or necessary or
convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this
Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may make
regulations for or with respect to all or any of the following:

    (a) the fees to be paid in respect of any matter or thing required
         for the purposes of this Act, and the refund or remission of
         the whole or any part of any such fees;

    (aa) the duties of a person registered as a registered retailer
          under section 23C;

                                                                           [Act 14 of 2023 wef 26/05/2023]

     (b) the manner of determining the quantity of waste collected
          by the operator of a licensed scheme;

    (c) the duties of an operator of a licensed scheme, including
        the duty —

    (i) to collect specified waste from a person without fee
        or at a prescribed fee;

    (ii) to provide collection points for specified waste and
         the manner and places where such collection points
         may be placed;

    (iii) to submit collection plans and contingency plans to
          the Agency; and

    (iv) to dispose of specified waste collected in a
         prescribed manner or only with prescribed persons;

    (d) the duties of a licensed e-waste recycler, including the
         duty —

    (i) to meet recycling and material recovery standards;
        and

    (ii) to ensure secure data destruction when treating
         e‑waste;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
2020 Ed.  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          76

      (e) the receptacles that may be provided by a retailer for the
           collection of designated regulated consumer products
           under section 15;

                                                                             [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

      (f) the duties of any person or a person within a class of
           persons who supplies a beverage product, in relation to the
           communication of the price or deposit for the beverage
           product, and any waiver of the giving of the amount of the
           deposit to the person;

                                                                             [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

      (g) treating prescribed supplies of beverage products as
           supplies for which a person receives, or does not receive,
           any consideration in money for the purposes of
           section 23Q(5);

                                                                             [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

      (h) the circumstances in and purposes for which a scheme
           licensee may use any amount of deposit provided under
           section 23R(1) for a purpose other than the refund of a
           deposit under section 23U;

                                                                             [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

      (i) the duties of a return point operator.

                                                                             [Act 14 of 2023 wef 12/07/2024]

(3) The regulations made under this section may —

(a) prescribe the offences under this Act that may be
     compounded; and

(b) provide that any contravention of any provision of the
     regulations shall be an offence punishable with a fine not
     exceeding $10,000 or with imprisonment for a term not
     exceeding 3 months or with both.

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                  Sections 2 and 51

                                    SPECIFIED WASTE
 1. Any electrical or electronic product prescribed as a regulated product under
section 7 that is intended for disposal as waste and not for re‑use.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
77  Resource Sustainability Act 2019                          2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

2. Any empty beverage container of a beverage product within Part 4B.

                                                                                  [S 582/2024 wef 12/07/2024]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
                LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
      RESOURCE SUSTAINABILITY ACT 2019

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 29 of 2019 — Resource Sustainability Act 2019

Bill           : 20/2019

First Reading  : 5 August 2019

Second and Third Readings : 4 September 2019

Commencement   : 1 January 2020 (except sections 12 to
                     17 and Parts 4 and 5)
                     1 July 2020 (Part 4)
                     1 July 2021 (sections 12 to 17)

2. 2020 Revised Edition — Resource Sustainability Act 2019

Operation      : 31 December 2021

3. Act 14 of 2023 — Resource Sustainability (Amendment) Act 2023
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 4/2023

First Reading  : 6 February 2023

Second and Third Readings : 22 March 2023

Commencement   : 26 May 2023
                     7 March 2024
                     8 March 2024
                     12 July 2024

4. G.N. No. S 582/2024 — Resource Sustainability Act 2019 (Amendment of
                                 Schedule) Order 2024

Commencement   : 12 July 2024

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
.                                 ii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 12/7/2024
