THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
           ENERGY MARKET AUTHORITY OF
                     SINGAPORE ACT 2001

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                                                         2020 Ed.

Energy Market Authority of
    Singapore Act 2001

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

   ESTABLISHMENT, INCORPORATION AND CONSTITUTION
                                OF AUTHORITY

3. Establishment and incorporation of Energy Market Authority of
       Singapore

4. Common seal
5. Constitution of Authority

                                        PART 3

        FUNCTIONS, DUTIES AND POWERS OF AUTHORITY

 6. Functions and duties of Authority
 7. Powers of Authority
 8. Directions by Minister
 9. Chief Executive, officers and employees, etc.
10. [Repealed]
11. Protection from personal liability
12. Power to borrow
12A. Issue of shares, etc.
13. Duty of Authority in financial matters
14. Annual estimates
15. Power of investment
16. Bank accounts
17. Application of moneys
18. Financial year

                                                      1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Energy Market Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2001                                         2

Section   Future Energy Fund
          Purposes of Future Energy Fund
   19.    Recovery of costs for energy initiatives
   19A.   Symbol or representation of Authority
   19B.
   20.

                                        PART 4

           TRANSFER OF PROPERTY, ASSETS, LIABILITIES
                                AND EMPLOYEES

21. Transfer to Authority of property, assets and liabilities
22. Transfer of employees
23. Service rights, etc., of transferred employees to be preserved
24. Existing contracts
25. Continuation and completion of disciplinary proceedings
26. Misconduct or neglect of duty by employee before transfer

                                        PART 5

                                      GENERAL

27. Powers of enforcement
28. Preservation of secrecy
29. Offences committed by bodies corporate, etc.
30. Composition of offences
31. Regulations

         First Schedule — Constitution and proceedings of Authority
         Second Schedule — Powers of Authority

An Act to establish and incorporate the Energy Market Authority of
  Singapore, to provide for its functions and powers, and for matters
  connected therewith.

                                                                 [1 April 2001]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Energy Market Authority of Singapore Act 2001.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                Energy Market Authority of

3               Singapore Act 2001                          2020 Ed.

Interpretation

   2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

   “Authority” means the Energy Market Authority of Singapore
      established under section 3;

   “Board” means the Public Utilities Board continued under
      section 3 of the Public Utilities Act 2001;

   “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Authority and
      includes any temporary Chairperson of the Authority;

   “Chief Executive” means the Chief Executive of the Authority,
      and includes any individual acting in that capacity;

   “Deputy Chairperson” means the Deputy Chairperson of the
      Authority and includes any temporary Deputy Chairperson of
      the Authority;

   “district cooling service” has the meaning given by the District
      Cooling Act 2001;

   “electricity” means electrical power when generated,
      transmitted, supplied or used for any purpose but excludes
      the transmission of any communication or signal;

   “energy utilities” includes electricity, gas and district cooling
      services;

   “Future Energy Fund” means the fund of that name established
      under section 19;

                                                                          [Act 27 of 2024 wef 08/11/2024]

   “gas” means natural gas and town gas, but excludes liquefied
      petroleum gas;

   “member” means any member of the Authority;

   “natural gas” means mixture of gaseous hydrocarbons which is
      conveyed by gas pipes and is composed —

   (a) predominantly of methane; and

   (b) as to the remainder, of varying amounts of other
        hydrocarbons and other combustible and
        non‑combustible gases;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
            Energy Market Authority of

2020 Ed.    Singapore Act 2001                                     4

“premises” includes buildings, structures, streets, lands, waters,
   tenements, easements of any tenure, whether State land or
   not, whether open or enclosed, whether built on or not,
   whether public or private, and whether maintained or not
   under statutory authority;

“Regulation Department” means the department of the Board by
   that name;

“supply” —

          (a) in relation to electricity, means the supply of
               electricity through electric lines, and includes —

            (i) the supply to any person or premises in
                Singapore of electricity which is generated
                outside Singapore; and

          (ii) the supply to any person or premises outside
               Singapore of electricity which is generated in
               Singapore; and

          (b) in relation to gas, means the supply of gas through
               pipes;

“town gas” means any substance in a gaseous state, which is
   conveyed in gas pipes and is manufactured from
   petrochemical feedstock, and has hydrogen as one of its
   main constituents.

                                                                   [5/2018]

                                    PART 2

 ESTABLISHMENT, INCORPORATION AND CONSTITUTION
                              OF AUTHORITY

Establishment and incorporation of Energy Market Authority
of Singapore

 3. A body called the Energy Market Authority of Singapore is
established, which is a body corporate with perpetual succession and
is by that name capable of —

       (a) suing and being sued;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
   Energy Market Authority of

5  Singapore Act 2001                                       2020 Ed.

   (b) acquiring, owning, holding and developing or disposing of
        property, both movable and immovable; and

   (c) doing and suffering any other acts or things that bodies
       corporate may lawfully do and suffer.

Common seal

 4.—(1) The Authority must have a common seal and the seal may
be broken, altered or made anew as the Authority thinks fit.

 (2) All courts, judges and persons acting judicially are to take
judicial notice of the common seal of the Authority affixed to any
document and presume that it was duly affixed.

Constitution of Authority

 5.—(1) The Authority consists of the following members:

       (a) a Chairperson;

       (b) 5 or more other members as the Minister may from time to
            time determine.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 31/03/2025]

 (2) The First Schedule has effect as respects the Authority, its
members and proceedings.

                                    PART 3
    FUNCTIONS, DUTIES AND POWERS OF AUTHORITY
Functions and duties of Authority
 6.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, it is the function and
duty of the Authority —

       (a) to create a market framework in respect of the supply of —
               (i) electricity or gas; or
              (ii) other goods or services regulated by the Authority
                   under any written law,

       (a) which promotes and maintains fair and efficient market
            conduct and effective competition or, in the absence of a

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Energy Market Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2001                                       6

          competitive market, which prevents the misuse of
          monopoly or market power;

(b) to secure that all reasonable demands for the supply of
     electricity are satisfied;

          (c) to promote the development of the electricity and gas
              industries;

(d) to protect the interests of consumers in respect of the
     quality of electricity supply, gas supply and district cooling
     services provided;

          (e) to protect the interests of the public in respect of the supply
              and use of electricity and gas and the provision of district
              cooling services;

          (f) to promote the efficient use of energy utilities;

(fa) to manage and administer the Future Energy Fund in
     accordance with this Act subject to the directions of the
     Minister;

                                                                      [Act 27 of 2024 wef 08/11/2024]

(g) to exercise licensing and regulatory functions in respect of
     electricity, gas and district cooling systems and services,
     including the establishment of standards and codes relating
     to any connected matter;

(h) to advise the Government on national needs, policies and
     strategies relating to energy utilities, and on matters
     appertaining to the Authority generally; and

          (i) to exercise any other functions and duties conferred on the
              Authority by or under any other written law.

 (2) In addition to the functions and duties imposed by this section,
the Authority may undertake any other functions that the Minister
may assign to the Authority, and in so doing —

(a) the Authority is deemed to be fulfilling the purposes of this
     Act; and

(b) the provisions of this Act apply to the Authority in respect
     of those functions.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
   Energy Market Authority of

7  Singapore Act 2001                                       2020 Ed.

 (3) Nothing in this section is to be construed as imposing on the
Authority, directly or indirectly, any form of duty or liability
enforceable by proceedings before any court.

Powers of Authority

 7.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Authority may
carry on any activities that appear to the Authority to be
advantageous, necessary or convenient for it to carry on for or in
connection with the discharge of its functions and duties under this
Act or other written law and, in particular, the Authority may exercise
any of the powers specified in the Second Schedule.

 (2) This section is not to be construed as limiting any power of the
Authority conferred by or under any other written law.

 (3) The Authority must furnish the Minister information with
respect to its property and activities in such manner and at such times
as the Minister may require.

Directions by Minister

 8.—(1) The Minister may, after consulting the Authority, give to
the Authority any direction under section 5 of the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) In addition to the power mentioned in subsection (1), if it
appears to the Minister to be requisite or expedient to do so —

       (a) on the occurrence of any public emergency, in the public
            interest or in the interests of public security, national
            defence, or relations with the government of another
            country; or

       (b) in order —

               (i) to discharge or facilitate the discharge of an
                   obligation binding on the Government by virtue of
                   its being a member of an international organisation
                   or a party to an international agreement;

              (ii) to attain or facilitate the attainment of any other
                   object the attainment of which is in the Minister’s

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Energy Market Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2001                                       8

          opinion requisite or expedient in view of the
          Government being a member of such an
          organisation or a party to such an agreement; or

          (iii) to enable the Government to become a member of
                such an organisation or a party to such an agreement,

the Minister may, after consultation with the Authority, give any
directions to the Authority that are necessary in the circumstances of
the case.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (3) The Authority must give effect to any direction given to it under
subsection (1) or (2) despite any other duty imposed on it by or under
this Act or any other written law.

 (4) The Authority must not disclose any direction given to it under
subsection (1) or (2) if the Minister notifies the Authority that the
Minister is of the opinion that the disclosure of the direction is against
the public interest.

 (5) If any doubt arises as to the existence of a public emergency or
as to whether any act done under this section was in the public interest
or in the interests of public security, national defence or relations with
the government of another country, a certificate signed by the
Minister is conclusive evidence of the matters stated in the certificate.

Chief Executive, officers and employees, etc.

 9.—(1) There must be a Chief Executive of the Authority, whose
appointment, removal, discipline and promotion must be in
accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Authority may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint an individual to act temporarily as the Chief
Executive during any period, or during all periods, when the Chief
Executive —

       (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
   Energy Market Authority of

9  Singapore Act 2001                                       2020 Ed.

 (3) The Authority may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint and employ, on any terms and conditions that it
may determine, any other officers, employees, consultants and agents
that may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 10. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

Protection from personal liability

 11. No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against any member,
officer or employee of the Authority or other person acting under the
direction of the Authority for anything which is in good faith done or
intended to be done in the execution or purported execution of this
Act or any other written law.

Power to borrow

 12.—(1) The Authority cannot raise loans for the performance of its
functions under this Act or any other Act administered by the
Authority except in accordance with this section.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the Authority may raise loans by —

       (a) mortgage, overdraft or other means, with or without
            security;

       (b) charge, whether legal or equitable, on any property vested
            in the Authority or on any other revenue receivable by the
            Authority under this Act or any other written law; or

       (c) the creation and issue of debentures or bonds, or such other
            instrument as the Minister may approve.

 (3) The Authority may raise loans under subsection (2) —

       (a) from the Government; or

       (b) with the approval of the Minister, from another source,
            whether in or outside Singapore.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, the power to raise loans
includes the power to enter into any financial agreement or
arrangement under which credit facilities are granted to the
Authority for the purchase of goods or services.

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                       Energy Market Authority of

2020 Ed.               Singapore Act 2001                          10

Issue of shares, etc.

 12A. As a consequence of the vesting of any property, rights or
liabilities of the Government in the Authority under this Act, or of any
capital injection or other investment by the Government in the
Authority in accordance with any written law, the Authority must
issue such shares or other securities to the Minister for Finance as that
Minister may direct.

                                                                                                             [5/2002]

Duty of Authority in financial matters

 13. It is the duty of the Authority so to exercise and perform its
functions under this Act as to secure that the total revenues of the
Authority are sufficient, taking one financial year with another, to
meet its total outgoings properly chargeable to revenue account,
including depreciation and interest on capital and to meet a
reasonable proportion of the cost of the development of the
services of the Authority.

Annual estimates

 14. A summary of the annual estimates and supplementary
estimates adopted by the Authority must be published in the Gazette.

Power of investment

 15. The Authority may invest its moneys (including the moneys in
the Future Energy Fund) in accordance with the standard investment
power of statutory bodies as defined in section 33A of the
Interpretation Act 1965.

                                                                                                           [45/2004]

                                                                                [Act 27 of 2024 wef 08/11/2024]

Bank accounts

 16.—(1) The Authority must open and maintain an account or
accounts with any bank or banks that the Authority thinks fit.

 (2) Every such account must be operated by such person or persons
authorised to do so by the Authority.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Energy Market Authority of

11                     Singapore Act 2001                    2020 Ed.

Application of moneys

 17. The moneys of the Authority must be applied only in payment
or discharge of the expenses, obligations and liabilities of the
Authority and in making any payment that the Authority is authorised
or required to make.

Financial year

 18. The financial year of the Authority begins on 1 April of each
year and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Future Energy Fund

 19.—(1) The Future Energy Fund is established consisting of —

       (a) all moneys from time to time appropriated from the
            Consolidated Fund or Development Fund and authorised
            to be paid into the Future Energy Fund by Supply law;

       (b) all moneys authorised by or under any other written law to
            be paid into the Future Energy Fund;

       (c) any gifts or donations made by any person for the purposes
            of the Future Energy Fund; and

       (d) all investments out of moneys in the Future Energy Fund
            authorised to be made by this Act and the proceeds of any
            such investment, including the net income from such
            investments.

 (2) Upon the commencement of section 6(1) of the Energy
Transition Measures and Other Amendments Act 2024, the
Government must pay into the Future Energy Fund such sum as
the Minister charged with the responsibility for finance may
determine out of moneys provided by Parliament for the Future
Energy Fund.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1)(d), the net income from
investments is the amount ascertained by adding to, or deducting
from, the income received from investments of moneys in the Future
Energy Fund, any gain derived or loss sustained, realised or
unrealised (as the case may be) from such investments.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Energy Market Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2001                                       12

 (4) Upon the dissolution of the Future Energy Fund during any term
of office of the Government (within the meaning of the Constitution),
the balance then remaining in that Fund must be transferred to the
Consolidated Fund and added to the reserves of the Government not
accumulated by it during that term of office.

                                                                                [Act 27 of 2024 wef 08/11/2024]

Purposes of Future Energy Fund

 19A.—(1) The moneys in the Future Energy Fund may be
withdrawn by the Authority only for the following purposes:

       (a) for the Authority to carry on, or to provide or enable the
            provision of financial support in connection with or as a
            consequence of the carrying on of, any low-carbon energy
            project or energy supply security project;

       (b) for the Authority to carry on any associated design,
            investigative and engineering studies, survey or research
            preparatory to the undertaking of any project in
            paragraph (a);

       (c) to pay any of the following which is incurred or payable (as
            the case may be) for the purposes of any project in
            paragraph (a):

               (i) the costs incurred by the Collector of Land Revenue
                   in the acquisition of any land under the Land
                   Acquisition Act 1966;

              (ii) the compensation payable for the acquisition of any
                   land under the Land Acquisition Act 1966;

       (d) to pay insurance premiums on —

               (i) capital equipment or other investments; and

              (ii) land (including structures and installations),

       (d) constructed, improved, extended, replaced, acquired or
            leased using moneys from the Future Energy Fund;

       (e) to pay all amounts relating to the sale, disposal or write-off
            of any investments paid for with moneys from the Future
            Energy Fund;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Energy Market Authority of

13  Singapore Act 2001                                       2020 Ed.

    (f) to invest in accordance with section 15;

    (g) to pay any expenses properly attributable to the setting up
         of the Future Energy Fund and the administration,
         management and investment of moneys in that Fund.

 (2) Where a low-carbon energy project or an energy supply security
project was commenced before the appointed date, the moneys in the
Future Energy Fund may be withdrawn by the Authority for a purpose
mentioned in subsection (1) in relation to the project only if, before
the appointed date —

    (a) any infrastructure or property constructed, improved,
         extended, replaced, acquired or leased under the project; or

    (b) any transmission or distribution system improved or
         enhanced under the project,

is not in a position to be used to provide goods or services to any
person.

 (3) No investment paid for with moneys from the Future Energy
Fund may be written-off by the Authority without the prior approval
of the Minister.

 (4) The moneys in the Future Energy Fund must not be
withdrawn —

    (a) for the purposes of land reclamation by or on behalf of the
         Government;

    (b) to pay for any fuel used for the generation of any
         electricity; or

    (c) to pay for any recurrent costs of any low-carbon energy
        project or energy supply security project.

 (5) The moneys in the Future Energy Fund may be used, or used to
provide or enable the provision of financial support, for a purpose
mentioned in subsection (1), in an amount which, based on a
reasonable estimation by the Authority, will not contravene
subsection (4).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Energy Market Authority of

2020 Ed.               Singapore Act 2001                          14

(6) In this section —

“appointed date” means the date of commencement of
   section 6(1) of the Energy Transition Measures and Other
   Amendments Act 2024;

“energy supply security project” means a project to ensure the
   security and reliability of any supply of energy utilities in
   Singapore, necessitated by any low-carbon energy project,
   including —

          (a) the improvement or enhancement of any
               transmission or distribution system in Singapore; and

          (b) the construction, improvement, extension,
               replacement, acquisition or leasing of any
               infrastructure or property (including the acquisition
               of any intellectual property), to provide power back-
               up in the event of any interruption in the import,
               generation, transmission or distribution of any
               electricity under the low-carbon energy project,
               including —

          (i) energy storage systems;

          (ii) fast-response generators (including diesel
               generators and gas engines) for generating
               electricity;

          (iii) systems activating localised generators to
                reduce consumers’ electricity demand from
                any transmission system; and

          (iv) combined-cycle gas turbines;

“greenhouse gas” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
   Carbon Pricing Act 2018;

“low-carbon electricity” means any electricity that is generated
   (whether in Singapore or elsewhere) using —

          (a) energy from any renewable energy source; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Energy Market Authority of

15  Singapore Act 2001                                       2020 Ed.

    (b) any low-carbon fuel by which the emission of any
         greenhouse gas may be reduced or minimised when
         the fuel is used for the generation of electricity;

    “low-carbon energy project” means a project (whether or not in
       Singapore) consisting of the construction, improvement,
       extension, replacement, acquisition or leasing of any
       infrastructure or property (including the acquisition of any
       intellectual property), to enable the carrying on of any of the
       following:

    (a) the generation of low-carbon electricity (including
         the import, production, transportation and storage of
         any fuel used to generate such electricity) for supply
         to any person or premises in Singapore, or to persons
         or premises both in Singapore and outside Singapore,
         and the disposal, processing, storage or
         transportation of any waste produced in connection
         with the generation of low-carbon electricity;

    (b) the use of any energy storage system for the purposes
         of the supply of any electricity to any person or
         premises in Singapore, or to persons or premises both
         in Singapore and outside Singapore;

    (c) the disposal, processing, storage or transportation of
        emissions produced in connection with electricity
        that is not low-carbon electricity, generated for
        supply to any person or premises in Singapore, or
        to persons or premises both in Singapore and outside
        Singapore;

    (d) the import into Singapore of any electricity generated
         outside Singapore, and the transmission and
         distribution of the electricity for supply to any
         person or premises in Singapore, or to persons or
         premises both in Singapore and outside Singapore;

    “recurrent costs”, in relation to a low-carbon energy project or
       an energy supply security project, means any costs of a
       recurring nature incurred or that would be incurred in the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Energy Market Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2001                                       16

          ongoing operations of the subject matter of the project in the
          provision of goods or services.

(7) The Minister may by order in the Gazette prescribe —

(a) what is or is not a low-carbon fuel for the purposes of
     paragraph (b) of the definition of “low-carbon electricity”
     in subsection (6), generally or for one or more periods of
     time; and

(b) what is or is not a cost of a recurring nature for the purposes
     of the definition of “recurrent costs” in subsection (6),
     generally or for one or more low-carbon energy projects or
     energy supply security projects.

                                                                     [Act 27 of 2024 wef 08/11/2024]

Recovery of costs for energy initiatives

 19B.—(1) This section applies where the Authority undertakes any
energy initiative for any of the following purposes, whether by itself
or through a person appointed by the Authority (called in this section
appointed person):

       (a) to ensure the security or reliability of the supply of any
            energy utilities;

       (b) to improve or enhance the operation of any market or
            section of a market for any energy utilities;

       (c) to lower carbon emissions in connection with the supply of
            any energy utilities.

 (2) Regulations made under section 31 may provide for the
imposition of any rate to recover the costs of the Authority or
appointed person in undertaking any energy initiative, whether or not
payable at the time the rate is imposed.

 (3) Where a rate is to be imposed for any costs not yet payable, and
which amounts are not yet determined, then, for the purpose of
imposing the rate, the Authority may make a reasonable estimation of
the amounts of the costs that will be incurred.

 (4) Without affecting section 31, the regulations may make
provision in relation to the payment and recovery of any rate,
including —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Energy Market Authority of

17  Singapore Act 2001                                       2020 Ed.

    (a) the persons who must pay the rate, being any one or more
         of the following:

    (i) any electricity licensee under the Electricity Act
        2001, or any person exempted from the requirement
        of an electricity licence under that Act;

    (ii) any gas licensee under the Gas Act 2001, or any
         person exempted from the requirement of a gas
         licence under that Act;

    (iii) any licensee under the District Cooling Act 2001, or
          any person exempted from the requirement of a
          licence under that Act;

    (iv) any consumer of any energy utilities,

    (a) whether or not the person derives any direct or immediate
         benefit from the energy initiative for which the rate is
         imposed;

    (b) the amount of the rate payable by each person (including
         by way of a formula or other method which may
         incorporate by reference any other formula or market
         index of another body or organisation, as may be amended
         from time to time);

    (c) the manner in which the amount of any rate payable by any
        person is to be paid by the person (including to any person
        authorised by the Authority to collect the amount); and

    (d) if the amount of any rate payable by a person is not paid by
         the person, the manner in which the amount may be
         recovered from the person,

and the regulations may, for each rate, make different provisions for
different persons or classes of persons, or for different circumstances.

 (5) To avoid doubt, the regulations may provide that the rate
imposed for any energy initiative in relation to any energy utilities is
payable by all or any licensee, all or any consumer, or any
combination thereof, in relation to that or any other energy utilities.

 (6) To avoid doubt, the regulations may be amended from time to
time to alter the amount of the rate imposed on any person in relation

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Energy Market Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2001                                       18

to any energy initiative, for the purpose of ensuring that the amounts
paid or recovered under the rate are reasonably commensurate with
the costs of the Authority or appointed person (as the case may be) in
undertaking the energy initiative.

 (7) Subject to subsection (8), the amounts paid or recovered under a
rate imposed for any energy initiative are to be applied to meet the
costs of the Authority or appointed person (as the case may be) in
undertaking the energy initiative.

 (8) Where (despite any alteration under subsection (6)) the amounts
paid or recovered under a rate imposed for any energy initiative
exceed the costs of the Authority or appointed person (as the case
may be) in undertaking the energy initiative, the Authority may retain
the excess and apply the excess in payment of the costs of any other
energy initiative undertaken by the Authority or any appointed
person.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

Symbol or representation of Authority

 20.—(1) The Authority has the exclusive right to the use of any
symbol or representation that the Authority may select or devise and
thereafter display or exhibit the symbol or representation in
connection with its activities or affairs.

 (2) Any person who uses a symbol or representation identical with
that of the Authority, or which so resembles the Authority’s symbol or
representation as to deceive or cause confusion, or to be likely to
deceive or to cause confusion, shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $250
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Energy Market Authority of

19  Singapore Act 2001                                       2020 Ed.

    PART 4

    TRANSFER OF PROPERTY, ASSETS, LIABILITIES
                         AND EMPLOYEES

Transfer to Authority of property, assets and liabilities

 21.—(1) As from 1 April 2001, such movable and immovable
property vested in the Board and used or managed by the Regulation
Department and all assets, interests, rights, privileges, liabilities and
obligations of the Board relating to that Department are transferred to
and vest in the Authority without further assurance, act or deed.

 (2) If any question arises as to whether any particular property,
asset, interest, right, privilege, liability or obligation has been
transferred to or vested in the Authority under subsection (1), a
certificate under the hand of the Minister for Finance is conclusive
evidence that the property, asset, interest, right, privilege, liability or
obligation was or was not so transferred or vested.

 (3) Every proceeding by or against the Board relating to the
Regulation Department which are pending on 1 April 2001 may be
continued, completed and enforced by or against the Authority.

 (4) Every agreement relating to any of the transferred properties to
which the Board was a party immediately before 1 April 2001,
whether or not of such nature that the rights and liabilities thereunder
could be assigned, has effect as from that date as if —

    (a) the Authority had been a party to the agreement; and

    (b) for any reference to the Board there were substituted in
         respect of anything to be done on or after 1 April 2001 a
         reference to the Authority.

Transfer of employees
 22.—(1) As from 1 April 2001 —
       (a) all persons in the Regulation Department; and
       (b) any other persons that the Board may determine,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Energy Market Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2001                                       20

employed immediately before that date by the Board are transferred
to the service of the Authority on terms no less favourable than those
enjoyed by them immediately prior to their transfer.

 (2) Until such time as terms and conditions of service are drawn up
by the Authority, the scheme and terms and conditions of service in
the Board continue to apply to every person transferred to the service
of the Authority under subsection (1) as if the person were still in the
service of the Board.

Service rights, etc., of transferred employees to be preserved

 23.—(1) The terms and conditions to be drawn up by the Authority
must take into account the salaries and terms and conditions of
service, including any accrued rights to leave, enjoyed by the persons
transferred to the service of the Authority under section 22 while in
the employment of the Board.

 (2) Any term or condition relating to the length of service with the
Authority must provide for the recognition of service under the Board
by the persons transferred under section 22 to be service by them
under the Authority.

Existing contracts

 24. All deeds, bonds, agreements, instruments and arrangements
subsisting immediately before 1 April 2001 to which the Board is a
party and relating to the Regulation Department or to any employee
of the Board transferred to the service of the Authority under
section 22 continue in force on and after that date and are enforceable
by or against the Authority as if the Authority had been named therein
or had been a party thereto instead of the Board.

Continuation and completion of disciplinary proceedings

 25.—(1) Where on 1 April 2001 any disciplinary proceedings were
pending against any employee of the Board transferred to the service
of the Authority under section 22, the proceedings must be carried on
and completed by the Authority.

 (2) Where on 1 April 2001 any matter was in the course of being
heard or investigated or had been heard or investigated by a

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Energy Market Authority of

21  Singapore Act 2001                                       2020 Ed.

committee acting under due authority but no order, ruling or decision
had been made thereon, the committee must complete the hearing or
investigation and must make any order, ruling or direction that it
could have made under the authority vested in it before that date.

 (3) Any order, ruling or direction made by a committee under this
section is to be treated as an order, a ruling or a direction of the
Authority and have the same force or effect as if it had been made by
the Authority pursuant to the authority vested in the Authority under
this Act.

Misconduct or neglect of duty by employee before transfer

 26. The Authority may reprimand, reduce in rank, retire, dismiss or
punish in some other manner a person who had, whilst the person was
in the employment of the Board, been guilty of any misconduct or
neglect of duty which would have rendered him or her liable to be
reprimanded, reduced in rank, retired, dismissed or punished in some
other manner if he or she had continued to be in the employment of
the Board, and if this Act had not been enacted.

                                    PART 5

                                  GENERAL

Powers of enforcement

 27.—(1) In addition to the powers conferred by any written law, an
officer or employee of the Authority may, on declaration of his or her
office and production to the person against whom he or she is acting
of such identification card as the Chief Executive may direct to be
carried by officers or employees of the Authority, in relation to any
offence under any such written law —

       (a) require any person whom the officer or employee
            reasonably believes to have committed an offence under
            any such written law to furnish evidence of the person’s
            identity;

       (b) require any person, for the purpose of any such written law,
            to furnish any information or produce any book, document
            or copy thereof in the possession of that person, and may,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Energy Market Authority of

2020 Ed.            Singapore Act 2001                             22

          without fee or reward, inspect, copy or make extracts from
          the book or documents; and

          (c) when conducting any investigation under such written law
              require, by written order, the attendance before the officer
              or employee of any person being within the limits of
              Singapore who, from the information given or otherwise
              appears to be acquainted with the circumstances of the
              case, and the person so ordered must attend as so required.

(2) A person who —

(a) refuses to give access to, or assaults, obstructs, hinders or
     delays, an officer or employee of the Authority in the
     discharge of the officer’s or employee’s duties;

(b) wilfully misstates or without lawful excuse refuses to give
     any information or without lawful excuse refuses to
     produce any book, document or copy thereof required of
     the person by an officer or employee of the Authority
     under subsection (1); or

          (c) fails to comply with a lawful demand of an officer or
              employee of the Authority in the discharge of his or her
              duties,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Preservation of secrecy

 28.—(1) A person (A) who is or has been a member, an officer, an
employee or an agent of the Authority or a member of a committee of
the Authority must not, except for the purpose of the performance of
A’s duties or the exercise of A’s functions or when lawfully required
to do so by any court or where required or allowed by the provisions
of any written law, disclose any information relating to the affairs of
the Authority or of any other person which has been obtained by A in
the performance of A’s duties or the exercise of A’s functions.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Energy Market Authority of

23  Singapore Act 2001                                       2020 Ed.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Offences committed by bodies corporate, etc.

 29. Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a
company, firm, society or other body of persons, and that offence is
proved to have been committed with the authority, consent or
connivance of any person who, at the time of the commission of the
offence, was a director, manager, secretary or other similar officer or
a partner of the company, firm, society or other body of persons or
was purporting to act in any such capacity, that person shall also be
guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

Composition of offences

 30.—(1) The Authority may compound any offence under this Act
which is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
not exceeding $3,000.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations to prescribe the offences which may be compounded.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid to the
Authority.

Regulations

 31. The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations for or in respect of every purpose which is considered by
the Authority necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying
out the provisions of this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Energy Market Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2001                                       24

          FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                                            Section 5

           CONSTITUTION AND PROCEEDINGS OF AUTHORITY

Appointment of Chairperson and members

 1.—(1) The Chairperson and other members of the Authority must be appointed
by the Minister and hold office for such period and on such terms and conditions
as the Minister may determine.

 (2) The Minister may appoint the Chief Executive as a member.

Appointment of Deputy Chairperson

 2.—(1) The Minister may appoint any member to be the Deputy Chairperson.

 (2) If for any reason the Chairperson is unable to act or the office of Chairperson
is vacant, the Deputy Chairperson may exercise all or any of the powers conferred,
or the duties imposed, on the Chairperson under this Act.

Temporary Chairperson, Deputy Chairperson or member

 3. The Minister may appoint any person to be a temporary Chairperson, Deputy
Chairperson or member during the temporary incapacity from illness or otherwise,
or during the temporary absence from Singapore, of the Chairperson, Deputy
Chairperson or any member, as the case may be.

Revocation of appointment

 4. The Minister may, at any time, revoke the appointment of the Chairperson,
Deputy Chairperson or any member if the Minister considers such revocation
necessary in the interest of the effective and economical performance of the
functions of the Authority under this Act or in the public interest.

Resignation

 5. A member may resign his or her office at any time by giving not less than one
month’s notice to the Minister.

Vacation of office

 6. The office of a member becomes vacant —

        (a) on his or her death;

        (b) if he or she fails to attend 3 consecutive meetings of the Authority
             without sufficient cause (the sufficiency of which is to be decided by
             the Authority);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Energy Market Authority of

25  Singapore Act 2001                                       2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

    (c) if he or she becomes in any manner disqualified for membership of the
        Authority;

    (d) if he or she is adjudicated a bankrupt;

    (e) if he or she resigns his or her office; or

    (f) if his or her appointment is revoked.

Filling of vacancies

 7. If a vacancy occurs in the membership of the Authority, the Minister may,
subject to paragraphs 1 and 8, appoint any person to fill the vacancy, and the
person so appointed holds office for the remainder of the term for which the
vacating member was appointed.

Disqualification from membership

 8. No person may be appointed or may continue to hold office as a member if the
person —

        (a) is an undischarged bankrupt or has made any arrangement with the
             person’s creditors;

        (b) has been sentenced to imprisonment for a term exceeding 6 months
             and has not received a free pardon; or

        (c) is incapacitated by physical or mental illness.

Sealing of documents

 9.—(1) All deeds, documents and other instruments requiring the seal of the
Authority must be sealed with the common seal of the Authority in the presence of
any 2 officers of the Authority duly authorised by the Authority to act in that
behalf and must be signed by those officers.

 (2) Such signing is sufficient evidence that the common seal of the Authority has
been duly and properly affixed and that the seal is the lawful common seal of the
Authority.

 (3) The Authority may by resolution or otherwise appoint an employee of the
Authority or any other agent, either generally or in a particular case, to execute or
sign on behalf of the Authority any agreement or other instrument not under seal in
relation to any matter coming within the powers of the Authority.

 (4) Section 11 of the Registration of Deeds Act 1988 does not apply to any
instrument purporting to have been executed under sub‑paragraph (1).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Energy Market Authority of

2020 Ed.  Singapore Act 2001                                       26

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Salaries and fees payable to members

 10. There are to be paid out of the funds of the Authority such salaries, fees and
allowances as the Minister may determine.

Quorum

 11.—(1) The quorum at every meeting of the Authority is one‑third of the total
number of members in office or 3 members, whichever is the higher, and no
business is to be transacted unless a quorum is present.

 (2) The Chairperson, or in his or her absence the Deputy Chairperson, presides
at meetings of the Authority, and if both the Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson
are absent from any meeting or part thereof, such member as the members present
may elect presides at that meeting or part thereof.

 (3) A decision at a meeting of the Authority must be adopted by a simple
majority of the members present and voting except that, in the case of an equality
of votes, the Chairperson of the meeting has a casting vote in addition to the
Chairperson’s original vote.

Vacancies
 12. The Authority may act despite any vacancy in its membership.

Procedure at meetings

 13.—(1) The Chairperson or any other officer authorised by him or her must,
subject to such standing orders as may be made by the Authority under
sub‑paragraph (2), summon all meetings of the Authority for the despatch of
business.

 (2) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, the Authority may make standing orders to regulate its own procedure
generally and, in particular, regarding the holding of meetings, the notice to be
given of the meetings, the proceedings at the meetings, the keeping of minutes, the
custody, production and inspection of the minutes, and the opening, keeping,
closing and auditing of accounts.

Appointment of committees and delegation of powers

 14.—(1) The Authority may appoint from among its own members or persons
who are not members any number of committees that it thinks fit consisting of
members or other persons or members and other persons for purposes which, in
the opinion of the Authority, would be better regulated and managed by means of
those committees.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Energy Market Authority of

27  Singapore Act 2001                                       2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

 (2) The Authority may, subject to any conditions or restrictions that it thinks fit,
delegate to any such committee or the Chairperson, all or any of the powers,
functions and duties vested in the Authority by this Act or other written law,
except the powers to prescribe or levy dues and rates and borrow money.

 (3) The Authority may, subject to any conditions or restrictions that it thinks fit,
delegate to any employee of the Authority or any person all or any of its powers,
functions and duties vested in the Authority by this Act or other written law,
except the powers to prescribe or levy dues and rates and borrow money; and any
power, function or duty so delegated may be exercised or performed by the
employee or person in the name and on behalf of the Authority.

                                                                                                   [2/2012; 5/2018]

                           SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                                         Section 7(1)

                               POWERS OF AUTHORITY

 1. To form or participate in the formation of —

        (a) any company, joint venture or partnership for the purpose of carrying
             out all or any of the functions of the Authority; and

        (b) with the approval of the Minister, any company, joint venture or
             partnership for such other purposes as may be approved by the
             Minister.

 1A. To construct, acquire (whether by purchase, lease or otherwise), develop,
manage (including by leasing out for use) or operate any movable or immovable
property as the Authority considers necessary for the discharge of its functions and
duties.

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

 2. To sell, with the approval of the Minister, any immovable property if the
Authority thinks that the sale of the immovable property is necessary or expedient
for the purpose of carrying out its functions under this Act.

 3. To make provision for the training of employees and to award scholarships,
bursaries and study grants to such persons as the Authority considers fit.

 4. To grant loans to employees of the Authority for purposes specifically
approved by the Authority.

 5. To make provision for welfare benefits, gratuities, pensions, provident funds,
allowances or other superannuation benefits for employees or former employees
(or their dependants) of the Authority.

 6. To do anything incidental to any of its duties and functions.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                   LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

           ENERGY MARKET AUTHORITY OF
                    SINGAPORE ACT 2001

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 9 of 2001 — Energy Market Authority of Singapore Act 2001

Bill           : 8/2001

First Reading  : 22 February 2001

Second and Third Readings : 16 March 2001

Commencement   : 1 April 2001

2. Act 5 of 2002 — Statutory Corporations (Capital Contribution) Act 2002
   (Amendments made by section 3 read with item (9) of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill           : 7/2002

First Reading  : 3 May 2002

Second and Third Readings : 24 May 2002

Commencement   : 15 July 2002 (section 3 read with
                     item (9) of the Schedule)

3. 2002 Revised Edition — Energy Market Authority of Singapore Act
                                    (Chapter 92B)

Operation      : 31 July 2002

4. Act 45 of 2004 — Trustees (Amendment) Act 2004
   (Amendments made by section 25(4) read with item (13) of the Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill           : 43/2004

First Reading  : 21 September 2004

Second and Third Readings : 19 October 2004

Commencement   : 15 December 2004 (section 25(4) read
                     with item (13) of the Schedule)

5. Act 2 of 2012 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2012
   (Amendments made by section 8 of the above Act)

Bill           : 22/2011

First Reading  : 21 November 2011

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                          ii

Second Reading            : 18 January 2012

Notice of Amendments      : 18 January 2012

Third Reading             : 18 January 2012

Commencement              : 1 March 2012 (section 8)

6. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
   (Amendments made by section 60 of the above Act)

Bill                      : 45/2017

First Reading             : 6 November 2017

Second Reading            : 8 January 2018

Notice of Amendments      : 8 January 2018

Third Reading             : 8 January 2018

Commencement              : 1 April 2018 (section 60)

7. 2020 Revised Edition — Energy Market Authority of
                                    Singapore Act 2001

Operation                 : 31 December 2021

8. Act 37 of 2021 — Energy (Resilience Measures and Miscellaneous
                           Amendments) Act 2021

Date of First Reading     : 4 October 2021
                                (Bill No. 34/2021)

Date of Second and Third  : 2 November 2021
Readings

Date of commencement      : 29 January 2022

9. Act 27 of 2024 — Energy Transition Measures and Other Amendments
                           Act 2024

   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                      : 27/2024

First Reading             : 6 August 2024

Second and Third Readings : 9 September 2024

Commencement              : 8 November 2024
                                31 March 2025
                                1 July 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
.                                 iii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
        COMPARATIVE TABLE

ENERGY MARKET AUTHORITY OF
         SINGAPORE ACT 2001

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    2002 Ed.
—                          14—(1) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
—
—                             (2) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
14                            (3) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
—                             (4)
                           THIRD SCHEDULE [Repealed by
                           Act 5 of 2018]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
